0
a
I hope you all have a enjoyable stay.
I hope you all have an enjoyable stay.
Always use an (NOT a) before a word beginning with a vowel sound: ‘an egg’ ‘an envelope’.
My husband is doing a MSc in civil engineering.
My husband is doing an MSc in civil engineering.
Use an (NOT a) before an abbreviation that begins with a vowel sound: ‘an MSc’ ‘an MP’.
Sometimes it is difficult to live a honest life.
Sometimes it is difficult to live an honest life.
Use an (NOT a) before words beginning with h when the h is not pronounced: ‘an honour’ , ‘an
hour’.
1
a/an
The child had been a deaf since birth.
The child had been deaf since birth.
One of the girls I share with is a British.
One of the girls I share with is British.
Do not use a/an before an adjective (e.g. ‘deaf’, ‘British’) unless the adjective is followed by a
noun: ‘Her husband is disabled.’ Compare: ‘The footbridge cannot be used by the disabled.’ (= all
people who are disabled)
2
abandon
Since capital punishment was abandoned, the crime rate has increased.
Since capital punishment was abolished, the crime rate has increased.
abandon = give up a plan, activity or attempt to do something, without being successful: ‘Bad
weather forced them to abandon the search.’ ‘Without government support, the project will have
to be abandoned.’
abolish = remove a law, tradition or system, often by introducing a new law; do away with: ‘In
which year was slavery abolished in the United States?’ ‘I’d hate to see the monarchy abolished.’
It is difficult to reach abandoned places such as small country villages.
It is difficult to reach remote places such as small country villages.
abandoned = left for ever by the owners or occupiers: ‘The field was littered with abandoned
cars.’ ‘Some of these old abandoned coal mines could be dangerous.’
remote = far away and difficult to reach: ‘The tribe lives in a small remote mountain village.’ ‘We
have now managed to bring famine relief to people in even the most remote areas.’
3
ability
These machines are destroying our ability of thinking.
These machines are destroying our ability to think.
ability to do sth (NOT of doing): ‘Nobody doubts his ability to get the job done.’ ‘We need
someone with the ability to work under pressure.’
I want to improve my ability of reading.
I want to improve my reading ability.
reading/writing/teaching/acting ability: ‘Her acting ability was recognized at a very early age.’
I want to improve my ability of English.
I want to improve my ability in English.
ability in a language or subject: ‘Sarah has demonstrated considerable ability in both maths and
chemistry.’
4
able
One man is able to destroy the whole world.
One man is capable of destroying the whole world.
If someone is able to do something, they can do it and it is not unusual or surprising if they do it: ‘The doctor said that after a few days I’d be able to get out of bed.’ ‘Will you be able to play on Saturday?’ If someone is capable of (doing) something, they do not usually do it, but it is possible for them to do it if they want to: ‘I’m sure he’s quite capable of getting here on time, but he can’t be bothered.’ ‘The power station is capable of generating enough electricity for the whole region.’
There are so many places to visit in London that I’m not able to decide where to go.
There are so many places to visit in London that I can’t decide where to go.
We weren’t able to stop laughing.
We couldn’t stop laughing.
With verbs of perception (e.g. see, hear, smell) and verbs of the mind (e.g. understand, decide, remember), we usually use can, can’t, etc: ‘ can’t hear you. Could you speak a bit louder, please?’ ‘I think I can smell something burning.’ ‘Having met her new boss, I can see why she doesn’t like him.’ Note also the phrase can’t/couldn’t stop doing something: The book was so fascinating I
couldn’t stop reading It.’ See also COULD 1
In some countries you are not able to drink until you are 21.
In some countries you can’t drink until you are 21.
For actions that are controlled by laws or rules, use can, can’t, etc, or be (not) allowed to: ‘Now that they are both sixteen, they can get married.’ ‘The goalkeeper can touch the ball, but nobody else can.’
Technology has made them able to grow their own food.
Technology has enabled them to grow their own food.
enable = make someone able to do something: ‘This scheme is designed to enable young people to find work.’ ; Note also the phrase can’t/couldn’t stop doing something: ‘The book was so fascinating I couldn’t stop reading it.’ See also COULD 1
5
about
I am always delighted when I receive a letter from you. About the party on December 26th, I shall be very pleased to attend.
I am always delighted when I receive a letter from you. With regard to the party on December 26th, I shall be very pleased to attend.
People usually sleep with the doors and windows closed. About public transport, the bus and train services are excellent.
People usually sleep with the doors and windows closed. As for public transport, the bus and train services are excellent.
About may be used to introduce a topic (or change of topic), but only in informal styles: ‘About that book you asked for - I’ll get you a copy when I go to London.’
In other styles, use with regard to, regarding, as for, as regards or as far as ... is concerned: ‘With regard to the matter of unemployment, I would like to add a few remarks to those of the previous speaker.’ ‘I regret to Information that Language and Culture is out of print. As regards
your second question, I suggest that you write to the British Museum.’
It all depends on how different the new country is from your own. About myself, I haven’t experienced any culture shock but then this is my second trip to the States.
It all depends on how different the new country is from your own. In my own case, I haven’t experienced any culture shock but then this is my second trip to the States.
To show that you are going to start talking about your own personal experience or situation, use in my own case or (especially in informal styles) as for me/myself: ‘Many people have benefited from the operation. In my own case, I began to feel better immediately.’ ‘Most of my friends like
school. As for me, I can’t wait to leave.’
I was about leaving when the telephone rang.
I was about to leave when the telephone rang.
be about to do sth (NOT doing) Compare: ‘I was just leaving when the telephone rang.’
6
above
There were above a hundred people in the crowd.
There were over a hundred people in the crowd.
Do not use above with numbers (unless referring to points on a scale): ‘He is over eighty years of age.’ ‘I receive over twenty letters a day.’ Compare ‘Don’t let the temperature get above thirty degrees.’
I like to stay at home on a Sunday, as I’ve said above.
I like to stay at home on a Sunday, as I’ve already said.
What do you think of the above suggestion?
What do you think of my/this suggestion?
Above is used in formal writing to refer to something that has been mentioned earlier: ‘From the
above arguments It can be seen that supporters of the dam project fall into two camps.’ In
informal styles, this use of above is inappropriate.
Taking all the above into account, one could say that tourism does more harm than
good.
Taking all the above arguments into account, one could say that tourism does
more harm than good.
Instead of using the above as a loose reference to something mentioned earlier, make the
reference more precise by using the above + noun (or the + noun + above): ‘the above reasons’,
‘the statement above’.
7
above all
He likes reading, above all novels.
He likes reading, especially novels.
Above all means ‘most importantly’: ‘Get plenty of sleep, eat lots of good food, and above ail try
to relax.’ ‘There were many qualities that made him a great leader. Above ail, he had charisma.’
This year English is above all my most important subject.
This year English is by far my most important subject.
With a superlative form (‘the most important’), use by far: ‘The riot was by far the most horrific
scene I’d ever witnessed.’
Where would you like to go above all?
Where would you like to go most of all?
When you mean ‘more than anywhere/anything/anyone else’, use most of all or the most: ‘What
worries me most of all is that the car is not roadworthy.’ ‘The one I liked the most was too
expensive.’
8
abovementioned
I would be grateful if you would send it to the address abovementioned.
I would be grateful if you would send it to the abovementioned address.
Above-mentioned comes before the noun: ‘the above-mentioned person’, ‘the above-mentioned company’. Note that above may be used before or after the noun: ‘the above address’, ‘the address above’.
9
abroad
Since I was small, I’ve always wanted to go to abroad.
Since I was small, I’ve always wanted to go abroad.
I would like to continue my studies in abroad.
I would like to continue my studies abroad.
go/live/be abroad (WITHOUT to, at, in etc) The only preposition that is used before abroad is from: ‘She came back from abroad saying how much she had missed her home and family.’
10
absent
It’s a pity that you were absent from the training session.
It’s a pity that you missed the training session.
It’s a pity that you weren’t at the training session.
be absent = not be present at something that you are officially supposed to attend: ‘Her teacher
wanted to know why she’d been absent.’
miss = not be present at something: ‘She’s missed a lot of classes this term because of illness.’ ‘I
wouldn’t miss Sandro’s party for the world!’ (= I really want to go to it).
be at = be present at something: ‘John won’t be at the meeting. He’s had to fly to Romeon
business.’
11
absolutely
It is absolutely important that you see a doctor immediately.
It is very important that you see a doctor immediately.
It is absolutely essential that you see a doctor immediately.
See Note at VERY 2
12
accept
The company will not accept to buy new machines.
The company will not agree to buy new machines.
You accept someone’s advice, opinion, or suggestion BUT you agree (= say you are willing) to do
something. Compare: ‘I accepted her suggestion and agreed to see the doctor that evening.’
The driver did not accept me to get on the bus.
The driver did not allow me to get on the bus.
We can’t accept a motorway to be built through our town.
We can’t allow a motorway to be built through our town.
You allow/permit someone to do something, or let them do it: ‘Many parents do not allow/permit
their children to watch violent films.’ ‘Many parents do not let their children watch violent films.’
13
accident
Her car was involved in a big accident.
Her car was involved in a serious accident.
a bad/dreadful/nasty/serious/fatal accident (NOT big)
14
accommodation
Could you help me look for an accommodation?
Could you help me look for accommodation?
Accommodations in London are very expensive.
Accommodation in London is very expensive.
In British English accommodation (= a place to stay or live in) is always uncountable: ‘For the first
year we stayed in rented accommodation.’ In American English both accommodation and
accommodations (plural) are used.
15
accomplish
To accomplish world unity, we need peace.
To achieve world unity, we need peace.
A balanced diet is accomplished by eating many different kinds of food.
A balanced diet is achieved by eating many different kinds of food.
When you accomplish something, you manage to do it or complete it, especially something that
gives you satisfaction: ‘She felt that she could accomplish more through journalism.’ ‘During his
five years as President, he accomplished very little.’
When you achieve something, you manage to do or obtain what you have planned to do or
obtain, especially after a lot of effort: ‘The company intends to achieve all these goals within the
next five years.’ ‘By the age of twenty, she had already achieved her ambition.’
Note that achieve is also used to mean ‘accomplish’: ‘By the end of the course, you will feel that
you’ve really achieved something.’
16
according to
According to me, we should spend more money on education.
In my opinion, we should spend more money on education.
according to + the writer/Or Owen/her teachers/them etc (NOT me/us): ‘According to Charles
Anderson, the government should pay closer attention to public opinion.’
To introduce your own opinion, use in my/our opinion: ‘In my opinion, he didn’t deserve a prison
sentence.’
17
account
We also have to take into account that the schools are overcrowded.
We also have to take into account the fact that the schools are overcrowded.
take into account + the fact + that-clause: ‘They should take into account the fact that these
archaeological treasures are extremely valuable.’
18
accurate
I cannot give you the accurate date of my arrival yet.
I cannot give you the exact date of my arrival yet.
Accurate is mainly used (1) to describe something said or written that contains no errors: ‘Her
novels are always historically accurate.’ ‘These figures can’t be accurate, surely.’ (2) to describe
something that produces no errors: ‘Are you sure the bathroom scales are accurate?’ When you
mean ‘correct and as detailed as possible’, use exact: ‘The exact time is three minutes to seven.’
‘Do you remember his exact words?’ ‘They’ll be arriving next week - on Friday at three, to be
exact.
19
accustom
I am beginning to accustom to the British way of life.
I am beginning to get accustomed to the British way of life.
be/become/get/grow accustomed to sth: ‘Within a few minutes, my eyes had grown accustomed
to the dark.’ Note that, apart from in formal styles, most people prefer be/become/ get/grow
used to: ‘I am beginning to get used to the British way of life.’
Where I come from, we are not accustomed to see so many things in the shops.
Where I come from, we are not accustomed to seeing so many things in the
shops.
be accustomed to doing sth (NOT to do): ‘He was accustomed to leading a life of luxury.’
20
ache
After the run, I had an ache in my legs.
After the run, my legs were aching.
Ache is usually used either as a verb or in compounds with tooth, ear, head, back, stomach: ‘I did
some weight training on Monday and my shoulders have been aching ever since.’ ‘That radio of
yours is giving me a headache.’
Compare: ‘After the run, I had pains in my legs.’
21
act
I am interested in the way people act towards each other.
I am interested in the way people behave towards each other.
It is time that human beings learned how to act properly, without killing each
other.
It is time that human beings learned how to behave properly, without killing each
other.
When you are talking about what someone does on a particular occasion, act and behave are
interchangeable: ‘Passengers who left the flight in Rhodes said that they had seen two men
acting/behaving very suspiciously.’
When you are talking generally about what someone does or what people do, use behave: ‘You
can’t expect all babies to behave the same.’ ‘From the way he behaves, anyone would think that
he doesn’t get paid.’
He refused to accept responsibility for his acts.
He refused to accept responsibility for his actions.
The noun act is usually used when you want to comment on a particular thing that someone has
done: ‘It was an act of great courage.’ ‘These cowardly terrorist acts bring death and suffering to
the innocent.’
When you are talking about someone’s general behaviour, use actions: ‘You can’t be blamed for
your parents’ actions.’ ‘Her words and actions have not gone unnoticed.’ See also ACTION 2
22
action
The actions that we do everyday are made easier by computers.
The things that we do everyday are made easier by computers.
If someone has done a wrong action, he should be punished.
If someone has done something wrong, he should be punished.
Do and action cannot be used together. Use do + things/something/anything etc: ‘She’s always
doing things for charity.’ ‘Don’t do anything that might upset them.’
It is difficult to forgive those responsible for actions of terrorism.
It is difficult to forgive those responsible for acts of terrorism.
Blackmail is the action of trying to obtain money from someone by threatening to
expose them.
Blackmail is the act of trying to obtain money from someone by threatening to
expose them.
an/the act of (doing) sth (NOT action): ‘Such acts of violence will not be tolerated.’ ‘For some
people, the very act of talking to a doctor can help them to feel better.’
Few people are aware that an urgent action is needed.
Few people are aware that urgent action is needed.
The government should take an action to reduce the birth rate.
The government should take action to reduce the birth rate.
When you are talking about the idea or process of doing something, action is uncountable: ‘There
is too much talk and not enough action.’ In the phrase take action, action is always uncountable:
‘This illegal trade will continue unless action is taken to stop it.’
23
actual
We’d like to know more about the actual crisis (Not the economic problems of the
past).
We’d like to know more about the present crisis (Not the economic problems of
the past).
My actual job involves a lot of administration.
My present job involves a lot of administration.
actual = real (as opposed what is believed, planned or expected): ‘People think he is over fifty but his actual age is forty-eight.’ ‘Although buses are supposed to run every fifteen minutes, the actual waiting time can be up to an hour.’ present/current = happening or existing now: ‘No one can drive that car in its present condition.’ ‘Her current boyfriend works for Shell.’
24
actually
I never get bored by this city. Actually, each time I return I find something new to interest me.
I never get bored by this city. In fact, each time I return I find something new to interest me.
When actually means ‘in fact’, it is usually used to correct a misunderstanding: ‘People think we’ve got lots of money, but actually we’re quite poor.’ ‘I’m sorry to have kept you waiting.’ ‘Well actually I’ve only just arrived.’ ; When you simply want to develop a previous statement, use in fact or as a matter of fact: ‘The winter of 1940 was extremely bad. In fact most people say it was the worst winter in living
memory.’ ‘The company is doing very well. As a matter of fact, our sales have doubled.’ See also ACTUAL
We need to produce and export more than we do actually.
We need to produce and export more than we do at present.
When you mean ‘at the present time’, use at present, at the moment or currently (NOT actually) : ‘At present the company is very short of staff.’ ‘At the moment I’m working part-time in a travel agency.’
25
add
The other ingredients are then added into the mixture.
The other ingredients are then added to the mixture.
add sth to sth (NOT into): ‘They are demanding that a new clause be added to the contract which
will give them a share of the profits.’ ‘When a prefix is added to a word, you make a new word.’
26
admire
One hour is not long enough to admire all the exhibits.
One hour is not long enough to see all the exhibits.
I enjoyed admiring all the old buildings.
I enjoyed looking at all the old buildings.
Do not use admire when you just mean ‘see’ or ‘look at’. Admire means ‘look at someone or something with a strong feeling of pleasure’. This meaning of admire is found mainly in novels and tourist brochures: ‘Come and admire the magnificence of the Niagara Falls.’ ‘Rupert was
sitting outside on the verandah, admiring the many jewels in the night sky.’
Although it was a sad film, I admired it very much.
Although it was a sad film, I enjoyed it very much.
Everybody admired your talk because it was lively and interesting.
Everybody enjoyed your talk because it was lively and interesting.
Do not use admire when you mean ‘enjoy’. Admire means ‘have a very high opinion of someone’: ‘I’ve always admired people who think for themselves.’ ‘Lewis was probably best known and admired for his work on medieval literature.’
27
adore
I adore meeting new people.
I like/enjoy/love meeting new people.
I adore reading too.
I like/enjoy/love reading too.
Adore usually expresses a very strong feeling: ‘She adores her grandchildren and is always buying them presents.’ ‘The one singer I absolutely adore is Whitney Houston.’ If you use adore to mean ‘like/ enjoy/love’, you may sound insincere.
28
advantage
Although the film has its advantages, it also has a serious flaw.
Although the film has its merits/good points, it also has a serious flaw.
advantage = something that puts you in a better position than other people: ‘A healthier lifestyle is just one of the advantages of living in the country.’ ‘The main advantage of using word processors is the amount of time you save.’ merit = a good quality; a strength: ‘The merits of the new health programme are gradually being recognized.’ ‘We should judge each application on its own merits.’
Television provides many advantages.
Television provides many benefits.
benefit = a good result which improves your life or situation: ‘Belonging to a union has a number of important benefits.’ ‘It’s over a month since I got back from holiday, but I still feel the benefit.’
What are the advantages in studying in the United States?
What are the advantages of studying in the United States?
There are many advantages of having your own computer.
There are many advantages to/in having your own computer.
the advantage/s of (doing/having) sth: ‘He described the advantages of renewing the contract.’ ‘The advantages of independence soon became clear.’ there are (several/many etc) advantages to/in (doing/having) sth: ‘There are advantages to working in a supermarket.’ ‘There are clear advantages to such an approach.’ ‘Are there any advantages in appointing coordinators?’
29
advertisement
I have just seen your advertisement about a Chinese cook.
I have just seen your advertisement for a Chinese cook.
I am writing in reply to your advertisement of a part-time sales assistant.
I am writing in reply to your advertisement for a part-time sales assistant.
an advertisement for sb/sth: ‘an advertisement for Heinz tomato soup’
30
advice
I adviced him to tell the police.
I advised him to tell the police.
Advice is a noun. Advise is a verb.
She gave me a good advice.
She gave me some good advice.
It is full of good advices on healthy eating.
It is full of good advice on healthy eating.
Advice is an uncountable noun: ‘I could do with some advice.’ ; Compare: ‘She gave me a good piece of advice.’
31
advise
I asked my lawyer for her advise.
I asked my lawyer for her advice.
See Note at ADVICE 1
Nowadays many doctors advise to live in the countryside.
Nowadays many doctors advise living in the countryside.
Nowadays many doctors advise people to live in the countryside.
advise sb to do sth: ‘I advised her to see a lawyer.’ advise doing sth (NOT to do): ‘I would advise leaving very early. Then you’ll miss all the traffic.’
32
affect
The programme is about computers and their affect on our lives.
The programme is about computers and their effect on our lives.
To affect something (verb) is to have an effect on it (noun): ‘Smoking affects your health.’ (= smoking has an effect on your health)
This problem has also affected on the automobile industry.
This problem has also affected the automobile industry.
affect sb/sth (WITHOUT on): ‘Fortunately these new tax laws don’t affect us.’ ; Compare: ‘This problem has also had an effect on the automobile industry.’
33
afford
My father couldn’t afford paying for my education.
My father couldn’t afford to pay for my education.
afford (to do) sth: ‘Not many couples can afford to run two cars nowadays.’
34
afraid
The road to the airport was very busy and we were afraid to miss the plane.
The road to the airport was very busy and we were afraid of missing the plane.
be afraid to do sth = be unwilling to do something because you are frightened about what may happen: ‘She was afraid to eat it in case it was poisonous.’ ‘Don’t be afraid to ask for help.’ ; be afraid of doing sth = be worried or anxious about something which might happen: ‘Most criminals are afraid of being caught.’ ‘He says that he is afraid of losing his job.’
35
after
After a week we’re going to Italy.
In a week’s time we’re going to Italy.
I hope that I’ll still be healthy after ten years.
I hope that I’ll still be healthy in ten years’ time.
When you mention a time in the future that is measured from ‘now’ (the moment of speaking), use in a month’s time, in three weeks’ time, etc (or just in a month, in three weeks): ‘She’ll be back again in a couple of weeks ‘time.’ ; Note the alternatives: ‘A week (from) today we’re going to Italy.’ ‘I hope that I’ll still be healthy ten years from now.’
I promised to meet Hitomi at the exhibition a week after.
I promised to meet Hitomi at the exhibition a week later.
I returned to Germany after two years’ time.
I returned to Germany two years later.
When you mention a time in the past that is measured from an earlier time in the past, use a month later, three months later, etc: ‘Six months later they got married.’
After 1961 the consumption of cheese has increased each year.
Since 1961 the consumption of cheese has increased each year.
To refer to a period of time that begins in the past and continues up to ‘now’ (the moment of speaking), use since (NOT after): ‘I’ve been standing here waiting for you since half past three.’ ‘She hasn’t been to see us since she got married.’
My first aim is to get a master’s degree. After I would like to go and work in Canada.
My first aim is to get a master’s degree. Afterwards, I would like to go and work in Canada.
A police car arrived within minutes and soon after an ambulance came.
A police car arrived within minutes and soon afterwards an ambulance came.
After is used instead of afterwards only in informal styles, usually in phrases such as ‘soon after’, ‘not long after’ or ‘just after’. Careful users generally prefer afterwards, especially at the beginning of a sentence: ‘Shortly afterwards it was announced that the bank had collapsed.’ In American English after is often used instead of afterwards.
A police car arrived within minutes and soon after an ambulance came.
A police car arrived within minutes and soon afterwards an ambulance came.
In informal styles, after is used in phrases such as ‘soon after’, ‘not long after’ and ‘just after’. Careful users prefer afterwards, especially in formal styles: ‘Shortly afterwards it was announced that the bank had collapsed.’
In American English after is often used instead of afterwards.
I studied English for 2 years. After that I got a job as a stewardess on an American airline.
After studying English for 2 years, I got a job as a stewardess on an American airline.
We could all meet at my house for lunch. After doing this, we could go to the beach.
We could all meet at my house for lunch and afterwards we could go to the beach.
The meaning ‘then’ can be expressed in a number of ways, e.g. afterwards, then, later on, subsequently, after + v-ing. Avoid the repeated use of after that and after doing this/that.
After you will leave, we will write to you every day.
After you leave/have left, we will write to you every day.
See Language Note at WILL
36
after all
First we got stuck in a traffic jam and then our car broke down. After all we decided
to cancel the trip and went back home.
First we got stuck in a traffic jam and then our car broke down. In the end, we
decided to cancel the trip and went back home.
We stopped for a meal on the way and after all we didn’t arrive until midnight.
We stopped for a meal on the way and in the end we didn’t arrive until midnight.
See Language Note at END
37
afternoon
Afternoon we have classes until five o’clock.
In the afternoon we have classes until five o’clock.
School finishes at five in afternoon.
School finishes at five in the afternoon.
The afternoon I met them at the hotel and we went to the beach.
In the afternoon I met them at the hotel and we went to the beach.
See Language Note at TIME
38
afterwards
We started going out together just to have fun, as friends. Afterwards we both realized that there was more than just friendship.
We started going out together just to have fun, as friends. Later on we both realized that there was more than just friendship.
Afterwards suggests that the next thing happens as soon as the last thing has finished: ‘On
Saturday morning I went to see Adrian in hospital. Afterwards I drove into town to do some
shopping.’
When there is a long interval or delay between two actions or events, use later on: ‘I couldn’t
understand why she hadn’t answered my letters. Later on I discovered that she had moved to a
new address.’
First you draw a long straight line. Afterwards you draw another line, parallel to the
first one.
First you draw a long straight line. Then you draw another line, parallel to the
first one.
To introduce the next action in a process or series of actions, use then: ‘Check that the paper is
properly loaded. Then press the start button.’ Compare: ‘We all had lunch together at one o’clock.
Afterwards we went to the beach.’
39
again
It’s time I gave you your photographs again.
It’s time I gave you your photographs back.
He’d like to have his bicycle again if you’ve finished with it.
He’d like to have his bicycle back if you’ve finished with it.
If you give something to the person who gave it to you, you give it back to them. When you mean ‘to the person who had it before’, ‘to the place where something was before’ etc, use back (NOT again): ‘He took the camera back to the shop and asked for his money back.’ ‘Shall I put these
books back on the shelf?’
I’ll phone you again in five minutes.
I’ll phone you back in five minutes.
If you telephone someone after they have telephoned you, you call/ring/phone them back: ‘Put down the receiver and I’ll call you back.’
I would like to visit again some of these places.
I would like to visit some of these places again.
I’ll give you again my address.
I’ll give you my address again.
Again (= a second time) usually comes after the object: ‘It’s wonderful to see you again.’ ‘Would you like to watch the film again?’
40
against
Trying to avoid the sheep, he drove his car against a tree.
Trying to avoid the sheep, he drove his car into a tree.
When someone has an accident, they drive/run/walk/crash/bump into something (NOT
against): ‘The lorry skidded on the ice and crashed into a wall.’
41
age
I’m at the age of 22.
I’m 22 (years old).
be + NUMBER (+ years old): ‘David is almost twelve (years old).’
His age is about fifty-five years old.
He’s about fifty-five (years old).
Do not use age and years old together. The usual way of mentioning someone’s age is simply be +
NUMBER: ‘She’ll be sixteen next August.’
Soon you’ll be of my age.
Soon You’ll be my age.
Although we are at the same age, we have different interests.
Although we are the same age, we have different interests.
be my/your etc age: ‘When I was your age, I was already going out to work.’ be the same age (as sb): ‘Most of my friends are the same age as me.’
In the age of 15, you are allowed to drive a car.
At the age of 15, you are allowed to drive a car.
Phrases with age as their main word usually begin with at (NOT in): ‘Keeping fit is very important at your age.’ ‘Some girls get married at a very young age.’ ‘She is at the age when she wants to go to school.’
A child in the age of seven or eight needs a little push.
A child of seven or eight needs a little push.
People in my age spend a lot of time in pubs.
People of my age spend a lot of time in pubs.
noun + of + NUMBER: ‘They have a little girl of three and a boy of five.’ noun + of + my/your etc age: ‘He is very clever for a boy of his age.’ ‘A girl of her age needs someone to play with.’ Note the alternative with aged: ‘A child aged seven or eight needs a little push.’
They have two children in the age of 8 and 12 years.
They have two children aged 8 and 12.
They have two children, 8 and 12 years of age.
When you mention two ages after a noun, use either of the following: aged + NUMBER + and + NUMBER: ‘two boys aged 12 and 14’ NUMBER + and + NUMBER + years of age: ‘two boys, 12 and 14 years of age’.
These books are for children at the age of from 4 to 6 years.
These books are for children aged 4 to 6.
These books are for children between the ages of 4 and 6.
When you mention an age range after a noun, use either aged + NUMBER + to + NUMBER: ‘suitable for children aged seven to eleven’ or between the ages of + NUMBER + and + NUMBER: ‘suitable for children between the ages of seven and eleven’.
42
aged
Not all aged parents have children to look after them.
Not all elderly parents have children to look after them.
When it means ‘very old’, aged (pronounced /ˈeɪdʒɪd/ ) is mainly used in formal styles, usually in
the phrase the aged: ‘The poor and the aged are entitled to free health care.’
The usual word for this meaning is elderly, which also sounds polite: ‘The photograph was of an
elderly gentleman with a white moustache.’ ‘The building has been converted into a retirement
home for the elderly.’
My father left school at aged fourteen.
My father left school at (the age of) fourteen.
At aged 45, farmers are able to retire.
At (the age of) 45, farmers are able to retire.
at (the age of) + NUMBER: ‘Alan got married at twenty.’ ‘Sue got divorced at the age of twentyone.’
43
agent
I applied for a job at a travel agent.
I applied for a job at a travel agent’s.
To refer to a shop or company, use the ‘s form: a greengrocer’s, a chemist’s, a tailor’s, a butcher’s.
44
ago
The accident happened at ten years ago.
The accident happened ten years ago.
I came to England in two years ago.
I came to England two years ago.
He went to Sydney before five years ago.
He went to Sydney five years ago.
I started learning English since two years ago.
I started learning English two years ago.
See Language Note at TIME
I’m writing in reply to your letter that I’ve received two days ago.
I’m writing in reply to your letter that I received two days ago.
With references to past time such as yesterday, last week, a year ago, use a past tense (NOT the present perfect): ‘I came to England exactly six months ago.’ (NOT ‘have come’)
The train left at exactly 3 o’clock. Just five minutes ago I had been stuck in a traffic jam.
The train left at exactly 3 o’clock. Just five minutes before I had been stuck in a traffic jam.
See Note at BEFORE 1
45
agree
I don’t agree the people who say women should stay at home.
I don’t agree with the people who say women should stay at home.
In many ways I agree to his statement.
In many ways I agree with his statement.
agree with sb/sth = have the same opinion as: ‘You can’t expect everyone to agree with you all the time.’ ‘I tend to agree with you that the proposal is too risky.’
I don’t understand why he doesn’t agree the divorce.
I don’t understand why he doesn’t agree to the divorce.
Conservationists will never agree the building of the motorway.
Conservationists will never agree to the building of the motorway.
agree to sth = be willing to accept or allow something: ‘The bank manager has agreed to our request for a loan.’
I am agree that archaeological treasures should be protected.
I agree that archaeological treasures should be protected.
In some ways I am agree with those who want stricter punishments.
In some ways I agree with those who want stricter punishments.
Agree is a verb (NOT an adjective).
46
agreement
The government has made an agreement with the People’s Republic of China.
The government has reached agreement with the People’s Republic of China.
reach agreement or reach/come to/work out an agreement (with sb): ‘After a week of talks,
Britain and Iceland reached agreement on fishing limits.’ ‘Recent government attempts to work
out an agreement have proved unsuccessful.’
47
agriculture
The country’s economy is based on the agriculture.
The country’s economy is based on agriculture.
See Note at THE 4
48
aid
We must begin to aid ourselves and not wait for other countries.
We must begin to help ourselves and not wait for other countries.
Education can aid us to understand our world.
Education can help us to understand our world.
Aid is mainly used as a noun: ‘Many countries survive on foreign aid from richer neighbours.’ ‘It is government policy to provide aid to the homeless or the unemployed.’ As a verb, aid is used in formal styles and usually means ‘help something recover, develop, grow, etc’: ‘The country’s economic recovery has been aided by the recent peace agreement.’
They can learn faster by the aid of computers.
They can learn faster with the aid of computers.
with the aid of sth (NOT by): ‘These bacteria cannot be seen without the aid of a microscope.’
49
aim
Her lifelong aim was to learn how to fly.
Her lifelong ambition was to learn how to fly.
See Note at AMBITION 1
He was aiming a gun against me.
He was aiming a gun at me.
These programmes are aimed to a very wide audience.
These programmes are aimed at a very wide audience.
aim sth at sb/sth: ‘Each ball seemed to be aimed at my head.’ ‘This new dictionary is aimed at intermediate learners of English.’
I started to learn English with the aim to become a teacher.
I started to learn English with the aim of becoming a teacher.
with the aim of doing sth: ‘I originally went out to the Far East with the aim of setting up my own import-export business.’ Compare: ‘My aim is to become a teacher.’
50
air
It’s hard to find a fresh air nowadays.
It’s hard to find any fresh air nowadays.
Air (= the mixture of gases that we breathe) is an uncountable noun: ‘Let’s go for a walk and get some air in our lungs.’
51
aircraft
All the aircrafts have to be checked and refuelled.
All the aircraft have to be checked and refuelled.
The plural form of aircraft is aircraft (no change).
52
alarm
Finally we got really worried and alarmed the local police.
Finally we got really worried and alerted the local police.
alarm = make someone feel worried about a possible danger: ‘We don’t wish to alarm people unnecessarily, but it would be wise to avoid drinking the tap water here.’ alert = inform someone of possible danger so that they can be ready to deal with it: ‘When the pilot realized that one engine had failed, he alerted air traffic control.’
53
alive
Every alive creature in the sea is affected by pollution.
Every living creature in the sea is affected by pollution.
alive = not dead: ‘He was very seriously ill and is lucky to be alive.’
living = (1) alive now: ‘He has no living relatives.’ (2) used to refer to all creatures and things that
live and die: ‘Yeast is a living organism and too much heat or cold can kill it.’ ‘The ants will eat any
living thing that comes into their path.’
Our teacher, Mr Collins, is very alive.
Our teacher, Mr Collins, is very lively.
lively = full of energy: ‘The Yorkshire Terrier is a lively breed of dog.’
My reason for being alive had disappeared.
My reason for living had disappeared.
When you mean ‘continue to be alive’, use the verb live: ‘Her grandmother lived to a great age.’
‘The baby was four months premature and was not expected to live.’
54
all
He spent all the journey talking about accidents .
He spent the whole journey talking about accidents.
This decision changed all of her life.
This decision changed her whole life.
Before the singular form of a countable noun we usually use whole or entire: ‘We spent the whole lesson singing songs.’ ‘The entire document will have to be rewritten.’ Note that sometimes both all and whole/entire are possible: ‘It rained the whole/all the afternoon.’ In these cases,
whole/entire provides greater emphasis and often expresses a feeling of surprise, disappointment, satisfaction etc: ‘I read the whole book in just two evenings.’
People envy her because she is good at all.
People envy her because she is good at everything.
Nobody understands all.
Nobody understands everything.
Do not use all to mean ‘everything’ unless it is immediately followed by a relative clause: ‘Is that all she wanted to know?’
All of us didn’t want to go to bed.
None of us wanted to go to bed.
All companies will not tolerate lazy workers.
No company will tolerate lazy workers.
See Language Note at NOT
We all must try to find a solution to the problem.
We must all try to find a solution to the problem.
We all were delighted when we heard the news.
We were all delighted when we heard the news.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
As all you know, my name is Mary Smith.
As you all know, my name is Mary Smith.
I’ve never forgotten how beautiful all it was.
I’ve never forgotten how beautiful it all was.
All of is placed immediately before a pronoun, but all is placed immediately after. Compare: ‘All of
them speak French.’ ‘They all speak French.’
I like all the kinds of music.
I like all kinds of music.
All of children learn to speak naturally.
All children learn to speak naturally.
All of the young couples need a home of their own.
All young couples need a home of their own.
For general reference, put all/most/some etc immediately in front of the noun: ‘In Japan most
people use chopsticks.’ For specific reference, use all/most/some + of the/these/their etc + noun:
‘Most of the Americans I met were very friendly.’
I didn’t like the meal and couldn’t eat all.
I didn’t like the meal and couldn’t eat it all.
I didn’t like the meal and couldn’t eat all of it.
Do not use all to replace a pronoun. Use all (or all of) with a pronoun: ‘She took six exams and
passed them all.’ ‘She took six exams and passed all of them.’
55
allow
See PEOPLE 1
They also allow to the prisoners to keep birds.
They also allow the prisoners to keep birds.
allow sb to do sth (NOT to sb): ‘The principal doesn’t allow them to wear jewellery to school.’
It’s not allowed to talk in the library.
You aren’t allowed to talk in the library.
Talking in the library isn’t allowed.
It is not usually used as a preparatory subject before (not) allowed, especially in spoken English.
56
almost
I almost have forgotten what she looks like.
I have almost forgotten what she looks like.
The suitcase almost was too heavy to lift.
The suitcase was almost too heavy to lift.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
My job takes me almost to every part of the world.
My job takes me to almost every part of the world.
Almost comes immediately before the word it modifies: ‘He was working in Hungary for almost
ten years.’
Outside Japan, almost nobody speaks Japanese .
Outside Japan, hardly anybody speaks Japanese.
Instead of saying almost no/nobody/never etc, it is more usual to say hardly any/anybody/ever
etc: ‘It was so early that there was hardly any traffic.’ ‘I hardly ever go to the cinema nowadays.’
She almost couldn’t breathe.
She could hardly breathe.
Almost is used with a negative verb when something does actually happen although, at the time,
there is a strong possibility that it will not happen: ‘I was feeling so tired that I almost didn’t
come.’ ‘The traffic was so heavy that she almost didn’t get here in time.’
When you mean ‘only a little’ or ‘only with great difficulty’, use hardly: ‘We hardly know each
other.’ ‘She was so tired that she could hardly keep her eyes open.’ ‘I can hardly hear myself
think.’
57
alone
I was very alone at first but then I made some friends.
I was very lonely at first but then I made some friends.
alone = without other people around you: ‘I’ve thought about getting married, but I prefer living
alone.’
lonely = sad because you are alone and feel that nobody loves you or cares about you: ‘I didn’t
know anyone in Boston and felt very lonely.’ ‘Sarah hated the long lonely days in the empty
house.’
Children learn a lot by doing things alone.
Children learn a lot by doing things on their own.
on your own = without anyone’s help or supervision; independently: ‘He built the car all on his
own.’
58
along
Walking along the city after dark is not a good idea.
Walking through the city after dark is not a good idea.
along = (moving) next to the side of something long such as a road or river: ‘We walked along the
Thames as far as Hampton Court.’
through = from one side of an area to another: ‘The road goes through all the major towns.’
a lot (of)
59
already
Next July I’m going back to Hong Kong. I booked the tickets already.
Next July I’m going back to Hong Kong. I’ve booked the tickets already.
Already is usually used with the present perfect tense (NOT the past tense): ‘If he’s already seen
the film, he won’t want to see it again.’
Most of the food is cold already when you get it.
Most of the food is already cold when you get it.
They had already ten children and didn’t want any more.
They already had ten children and didn’t want any more.
They had ten children already and didn’t want any more.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
The war is not over already.
The war is not over yet.
The new shop has not been opened already.
The new shop has not been opened yet.
Instead of using not + already, use not + yet: ‘We haven’t been paid yet.’ ‘The plane hasn’t landed
yet.’
60
also
We also would like to be given more fresh food.
We would also like to be given more fresh food.
The school has also a gymnasium.
The school also has a gymnasium.
Besides the nature society, there also is a music society.
Besides the nature society, there is also a music society.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
I don’t like your climate and I don’t like English food also.
I don’t like your climate and I don’t like English food either.
He doesn’t also recommend winter holidays.
He doesn’t recommend winter holidays either.
See Note at TOO 2
Women are often better at negotiating than men. Also, they don’t give up so easily.
Women are often better at negotiating than men. What’s more, they don’t give
up so easily.
A footbridge would take too long to build. Also, it would be of no use to the
disabled.
A footbridge would take too long to build. Furthermore, it would be of no use to
the disabled.
When you want to add another reason and give it special emphasis or importance, use
furthermore, moreover, what’s more or besides: ‘The drug has powerful side effects. Moreover, it
can be addictive.’ Also is not wrong but does not have the same persuasive force.
61
alternate
We decided to make alternate arrangements in case the hotel was fully booked.
We decided to make alternative arrangements in case the hotel was fully booked.
In British English alternate and alternative have different meanings.
alternate = (1) happening in turn, first one then the other: ‘alternate periods of sun and rain’ (2)
every second (day, week, etc): ‘Our local football team plays at home on alternate Saturdays.’
alternative = that may be used instead of the usual one or the one you had planned to use: ‘In
view of the roadworks, motorists are advised to use an alternative route.’
In American English alternate is used with the same meaning as alternative.
62
alternatively
In Sweden many wives and husbands stay at home alternatively to look after their children.
In Sweden many wives and husbands stay at home alternately to look after their children.
alternatively = another possibility is: ‘I thought we’d stay at home. Alternatively, you might like to go for a walk.’ ; alternately = in turns, first one then the other: ‘The play is alternately sad and happy.’ ; Note the more common alternative: ‘In Sweden many wives and husbands take it in turns to stay at home and look after their children.’
63
altogether
Afterwards, we played altogether monopoly.
Afterwards, we all played monopoly.
After dinner, we watch altogether television.
After dinner, we all watch television.
When you mean ‘each person or thing (in a group)’, use all after the subject (NOT altogether):
‘The flowers had all died.’ ‘The children were all tired and hungry.’
64
always
Come and spend the weekend with me. I live always at the same address in
Croydon.
Come and spend the weekend with me. I still live at the same address in Croydon.
He died a long time ago, but his ideas are always alive.
He died a long time ago, but his ideas are still alive.
Always means ‘all the time’ or ‘every time’: ‘She has always wanted her own Mercedes.’ ‘I always
go to work by train.’
To say that a previous situation has not changed and continues ‘now’ (at the time of speaking),
use still (NOT always): ‘Lucy is recovering, but she’s still in hospital.’ ‘The house is still for sale.’
I have always the feeling that she enjoys teaching us.
I always have the feeling that she enjoys teaching us.
You will be always welcome.
You will always be welcome.
During the winter months, they always were in the kitchen.
During the winter months, they were always in the kitchen.
See Language Note on next page
a.m.
65
ambition
My immediate ambition is to find somewhere to live.
My immediate aim is to find somewhere to live.
ambition = something very important that you have wanted to do or achieve for a very long time:
‘Sandro’s one ambition is to play for Italy in the World Cup.’
aim = what you hope to achieve when you do something: ‘The aim of the course is to develop the
students’ writing skills.’
Not many people manage to satisfy their ambitions.
Not many people manage to achieve their ambitions.
achieve your ambition (NOT satisfy, meet, reach, arrive etc): ‘He has achieved his main ambition
- to make a name for himself in politics.’
66
among
The main purpose of the visit is to develop a closer relationship among the two
countries.
The main purpose of the visit is to develop a closer relationship between the two
countries.
Use among when you are talking about three or more people or things. For two people or things,
use between.
Try to avoid arousing anger and fear among the children.
Try to avoid arousing anger and fear in the children.
He is very popular among the people of Japan.
He is very popular with the people of Japan.
Do not use among when the preceding verb/noun/adjective requires a different preposition: e.g.
arouse anger in someone.
Among these problems, the most serious is the excessive growth of the world’s
population.
The most serious of these problems is the excessive growth of the world’s
population.
When a phrase beginning with among comes at the start of a sentence, it is usually followed by
the verb be (NOT by the subject of the sentence): ‘Among her reasons for resigning is the fact that
she wants to move back to her home town.’ ‘Among those attending the ceremony were the
Sultan of Pahang and his wife.’ Note also that this structure is not common and is used only in
formal styles,
67
amount
The amount of accidents is steadily increasing.
The number of accidents is steadily increasing.
Only small amounts of students will be admitted.
Only small numbers of students will be admitted.
amount of + uncountable noun
number of + plural countable noun
Compare: ‘an amount of money’, ‘a number of coins’
I was lucky and won a big amount of money.
I was lucky and won a large amount of money.
Cream cheese contains a high amount of fat.
Cream cheese contains a large amount of fat.
a large amount (NOT big/high)
The amount of crime have increased.
The amount of crime has increased.
A tremendous amount of research have been carried out.
A tremendous amount of research has been carried out.
amount of (singular) + uncountable noun + singular verb
amounts of (plural) + uncountable noun + plural verb
Compare: ‘A large amount of money is required.’ ‘Large amounts of money are required.’
68
ample
The kitchen is very ample and has a window overlooking the garden.
The kitchen is very spacious and has a window overlooking the garden.
ample = (more than) enough; plenty (of): ‘The boot contains ample room for two large suitcases.’
‘Just one spoonful should be ample.’ ‘He was given ample opportunity to express his opinion.’
spacious = large, with a lot of space: ‘These ideal holiday homes are extremely spacious and
within walking distance of the sea.’
69
amuse
I made a lot of new friends during my stay in England and amused myself a lot.
I made a lot of new friends during my stay in England and really enjoyed myself.
amuse yourself = do something to stop yourself from getting bored: ‘Can’t you find something to
do to amuse yourself?’ With a pencil or two and a few sheets of paper, young children can amuse
themselves for hours.’
enjoy yourself = have a pleasant time: ‘The party was a huge success and all the guests enjoyed
themselves.’
70
amusing
The last three years have been the most amusing years of my life.
The last three years have been the most enjoyable years of my life.
amusing = causing you to laugh or smile: ‘The speaker was clearly embarrassed when the
microphone stopped working, but the audience found the situation very amusing.’ ‘I don’t see
anything amusing about finding a snake in your tent in the middle of the night’
enjoyable = causing you to feel happy; pleasant: ‘It was one of the most enjoyable holidays we’ve
ever had.’ ‘Exercise may be hard work, but it can also be enjoyable.’
Most visitors find the museum extremely amusing.
Most visitors find the museum extremely interesting.
Something that holds your attention (and makes you want to know more) is interesting (NOT
amusing): ‘The most interesting thing about the dinosaurs is their sudden disappearance.’ ‘His
plan for raising more money sounds interesting but I’m not sure it’ll work.’
71
an
I had never visited an hospital before.
I had never visited a hospital before.
Before a word beginning with h, use a if the h is pronounced: ‘a house’, ‘a half’, ‘a horrible day’.
Use an if the h is silent: ‘an hour’, ‘an honour’. If the h is pronounced but the syllable is unstressed,
it is possible to use a or an (‘a/an hotel’). However, the use of an here is considered old fashioned
and most people use a.
72
and
There is a beautiful and old church in the centre of the town.
There is a beautiful old church in the centre of the town.
Do not use and between two adjectives that come before a noun unless they describe similar
qualities, e.g. ‘a red and green umbrella’ (two colours), ‘a gold and silver bracelet’ (two materials),
‘a hunting and fishing knife’ (two functions).
73
anger
I was surprised and anger that he did not apologize.
I was surprised and angry that he did not apologize.
Anger is a noun and a verb: ‘The workers who lost their jobs expressed anger and resentment.’
‘The government’s handling of the affair has angered local residents.’ The adjective is angry:
‘Some of the women felt angry about the way they were treated.’
He’ll have to learn how to control his anger.
He’ll have to learn how to control his temper.
control/keep/lose your temper (NOT anger): ‘The problem with George is that he can’t control
his temper.’ (= cannot stop himself from suddenly getting angry)
74
announce
The following day their father suddenly announced them that he was leaving.
The following day their father suddenly announced (to them) that he was leaving.
After announce, use to before the listener: ‘Shortly after losing the heavyweight title, he
announced (to the world’s press) that he was retiring from the ring.’
75
announcement
On almost every page there were announcements for cigarettes and tobacco.
On almost every page there were advertisements for cigarettes and tobacco.
When you want to give people some important information, you make an announcement:
‘Following the announcement of their marriage, they were pursued by crowds of journalists.’
An advertisement is an item in a newspaper, on television, etc, that tries to persuade people to
buy something, apply for a job, etc: ‘At this time of the year, the papers are full of holiday
advertisements.’
76
annoy/annoyed
The noise of the traffic outside all day annoys me.
The noise of the traffic outside all day irritates me.
I feel rather annoyed when I see the same advertisement time and time again.
I feel rather irritated when I see the same advertisement time and time again.
Something unpleasant that happens repeatedly or continuously over a long period of time tends
to irritate or frustrate people, especially because they know that they can do nothing to stop it: ‘I
felt so tense that even the ticking of the clock began to irritate me.’ ‘I am constantly frustrated by
all the niggling little jobs I have to do.’
Some people are annoyed by these violent films.
Some people are disturbed by these violent films.
Some people find these violent films disturbing.
Someone who is emotionally shocked by something they see or read is
disturbed/upset/distressed/offended
it,
they
disturbing/upsetting/distressing/offensive: ‘Viewers are warned that this documentary contains
a number of violent scenes which they may find disturbing.’
She annoyed that I hadn’t waited for her.
She was annoyed that I hadn’t waited for her.
be/get annoyed: ‘My boss is always getting annoyed with me for some reason or other.’
77
annoyed
I felt terribly annoyed with his lack of sensitivity.
I felt terribly annoyed at his lack of sensitivity.
annoyed with/at sb: ‘She’s annoyed with you for not answering her letters.’
annoyed at/about sth: ‘The thing that I’m really annoyed about is that nobody told me.’
78
another
Rio has another important sights such as the famous football stadium.
Rio has other important sights such as the famous football stadium.
another + singular: ‘another child’
other + plural: ‘other children’
He gave the class another homework.
He gave the class some more homework.
another + singular countable noun: ‘We need another chair.’
(some) more + uncountable noun: ‘We need (some) more furniture.’
I hate horror films. Let’s watch another.
I hate horror films. Let’s watch something else.
If Henry is busy, get another man to help you.
If Henry is busy, get someone else to help you.
Can’t you use another’s computer?
Can’t you use someone else’s computer?
When you mean ‘a different person/thing/place’, use someone else, something else, somewhere
else: ‘I got fed up with the job and decided to do something else.’
There is also another point that is worth mentioning.
There is another point that is worth mentioning.
Also another way to lose weight is to eat less.
Another way to lose weight is to eat less.
another (NOT also another): ‘Another problem, of course, is finding a job.’
Families fall into two categories. One is the composite family; another is the
nuclear family.
Families fall into two categories. One is the composite family; the other is the
nuclear family.
When you are talking about two people or things, use the other (NOT another): ‘One of the twins
is called Youki and the other is called Azusa.’
Without a car, it takes a long time to get from a place to another.
Without a car, it takes a long time to get from one place to another.
from one ... to another (NOT from a/an ... to another): ‘The job involves travelling from one
country to another.’
79
answer
They still can’t find an answer for this problem.
They still can’t find an answer to this problem.
an answer to a problem or question (NOT for): ‘The answer to the second question is Abraham
Lincoln.’
It has taken them almost two months to answer to my letter.
It has taken them almost two months to answer my letter.
I couldn’t answer to the last two questions.
I couldn’t answer the last two questions.
My job involves cooking, cleaning and answering to the door bell.
My job involves cooking, cleaning and answering the door bell.
answer sb/sth (WITHOUT to): ‘Have you answered their letter yet?’
Note that answer also has less common meanings where to is necessary: ‘Anyone who upsets you
will have me to answer to.’ ‘The dog answers to the name of Zak.’
I rang the number you gave me but nobody answered me.
I rang the number you gave me but nobody answered.
I called her name but nobody answered me.
I called her name but nobody answered.
Do not use an object with answer unless this adds new meaning to the sentence (meaning which
is not obvious from the rest of the sentence). Compare: ‘He asked her for an explanation but she
didn’t answer.’ ‘I’d like to speak to him but he refuses to answer the phone.’ In the first sentence
the object ‘him’ is understood and there is no need to mention it.
80
antique
There is a beautiful antique church in the centre of the town.
There is a beautiful old church in the centre of the town.
Antique is used for objects (NOT buildings): ‘The upper-middle class have become collectors of
antique furniture.’
He has made a lot of money from selling antique things.
He has made a lot of money from selling antiques.
an antique (NOT an antique thing): ‘Some of these antiques must be worth a fortune.’
81
anxious
I always feel anxious when I have to make a speech.
I always feel nervous when I have to make a speech.
anxious = worried because you fear that something bad may happen or may have happened:
‘Their daughter hadn’t come home from school and they were anxious about her safety.’ ‘I knew it
was just a minor operation, but I couldn’t help feeling anxious.’
nervous = worried because you are in or about to enter a stressful situation: ‘I was so nervous
about the exam that I couldn’t sleep.’ ‘It was our first television appearance and we were all
feeling nervous.’
She is anxious that the hotel rates will be too expensive.
She is worried that the hotel rates will be too expensive.
I was anxious that somebody would see us through the window.
I was worried that somebody would see us through the window.
worried = unhappy because you have (or expect that you are going to have) a problem: ‘The
business is losing money and the boss is very worried.’
He obviously isn’t anxious about public opinion.
He obviously isn’t worried about public opinion.
not worried/concerned/bothered about sth = feeling that something is not a problem: ‘I’m not
bothered about how much it will cost.’
Note the alternative: ‘He obviously doesn’t care about public opinion.’
I’m anxious to hear about your new boyfriend.
I can’t wait to hear about your new boyfriend.
I am anxious to see how British people celebrate Christmas.
I’m longing to see how British people celebrate Christmas.
If you are anxious to do something, you want to do it in order to improve a (difficult or
unpleasant) situation: ‘We are anxious that people are informed of the truth of the matter.’ ‘The
police are anxious to speak to anyone who witnessed the accident.’
If you simply have a strong desire to do something, you are keen/eager/longing/dying to do it, or
you cannot wait to do it: ‘I can’t wait to get out of these wet clothes.’
Most unemployed people are anxious for finding work.
Most unemployed people are anxious to find work.
anxious to do sth (NOT for doing): ‘He was anxious to gain approval.’
82
any
Any day was the same.
Each day was the same.
Any smoker must remember that the people around him are inhaling the smoke.
Every smoker must remember that the people around him are inhaling the
smoke.
Any parents are thrilled when their first baby arrives.
All parents are thrilled when their first baby arrives.
To refer to all the people or things in a group or category, use each/every + singular countable
noun OR all + plural countable noun (NOT any): ‘Every house in the street had one or two broken
windows.’ ‘All students are required to register during the first week.’
If you have any question, ask your teacher.
If you have any questions, ask your teacher.
She doesn’t have any friend.
She doesn’t have any friends.
When any is used with a countable noun, the noun is usually plural: ‘a question’ BUT ‘any
questions’.
Has Atsuko found any job yet?
Has Atsuko found a job yet?
If there is any hole in the balloon, the air will escape.
If there is a hole in the balloon, the air will escape.
Any is usually used with uncountable nouns and plural countables (NOT with singular countable
nouns). Compare: ‘Do you have any money?’ (money is an uncountable noun) ‘Do you have any
fifty-cent coins?’ (coins is a plural countable noun) ‘Do you have a fifty-cent coin?’ (coin is a
singular countable noun)
Note, however: ‘I’ll accept any job I’m offered.’ (= it does not matter which job)
When he asked if he could use the telephone, he was told that the family didn’t
have any.
When he asked if he could use the telephone, he was told that the family didn’t
have one.
Do not use any as a pronoun for a singular countable noun (see last entry). Compare: ‘He asked
for some help but nobody gave him any.’ (help is an uncountable noun) ‘She wanted to borrow
some books but nobody would lend her any.’ (books is a plural countable noun) ‘I need a new
computer but I can’t afford one.’ (computer is a singular countable noun)
83
any more
People go there when they are not able any more to look after themselves.
People go there when they are not able to look after themselves any more.
The state does not any more provide a pension for everyone.
The state does not provide a pension for everyone any more.
When used in connection with time, any more usually comes at the end of the sentence: ‘Helen
doesn’t work here any more.’
Note the alternatives: ‘People go there when they are no longer able to look after themselves.’
‘The state no longer provides a pension for everyone.’
84
anybody/anyone
Anyone should speak not just one but several languages.
Everyone should speak not just one but several languages.
Anybody else in the class speaks Japanese.
Everybody else in the class speaks Japanese.
To refer to all the people in a group, use everybody/everyone (NOT anybody/anyone) .
Please ask your staff if anybody of them has seen my purse.
Please ask your staff if any of them has seen my purse.
He doesn’t know anyone of them, but he doesn’t care.
He doesn’t know any of them, but he doesn’t care.
Before an of phrase, use any (NOT anybody/anyone).
Anyone are welcome to join us.
Anyone is welcome to join us.
If anybody want one, please write your name on the board.
If anybody wants one, please write your name on the board.
anybody/anyone + singular verb: ‘If anyone calls, tell them I’ll be back after lunch.’
If anyone wants to leave now, he may do so.
Anyone who wants to leave now may do so.
When anyone reads these lines, he or she will think that the writer is very sad.
Anyone reading these lines will think that the writer is very sad.
See Language Note at HE
85
anyhow/anyway
Those students who pass are given an intermediate certificate Anyhow, the examination is far from easy.
Those students who pass are given an intermediate certificate. However, the examination is far from easy.
Unfortunately, the beach is not white and sandy. Anyway, it is seldom crowded and we can enjoy the sea.
Unfortunately, the beach is not white and sandy. On the other hand, it is seldom crowded and we can enjoy the sea.
I’m sorry that I won’t be able to attend your wedding. Anyway, I would like to give you something for your new home.
I’m sorry that I won’t be able to attend your wedding. Nevertheless, I would like to give you something for your new home.
Anyhow and anyway are used to connect sentences only in informal styles (NOT in essays, written reports, etc). Their main uses are: (1) to show that you are about to return to the main topic or story line: ‘Anyway, as soon as the plane landed he was rushed off to hospital and that was the last I saw of him.’ (2) to show that your next point is just as important or relevant as your last one; ‘In any case, I’m too busy to play tennis this afternoon. Anyhow, it looks like it’s going to rain.’ For reasons of style and logic, anyhow and anyway cannot be used in place of however, on the other hand or nevertheless.
86
anywhere
This is a serious problem for teachers anywhere.
This is a serious problem for teachers everywhere.
Computers will be anywhere we go.
Computers will be everywhere we go.
When you mean ‘in/to all places’, use everywhere (NOT anywhere).
When it snows, it is difficult to go to anywhere.
When it snows, it is difficult to go anywhere.
See Note at SOMEWHERE 2
87
apologize
The waiter was made to apologize my father.
The waiter was made to apologize to my father.
He apologized her for the long delay.
He apologized to her for the long delay.
apologize to sb: ‘The US has apologized to Britain for the accident that cost nine lives.’
She insisted on apologizing her husband’s behaviour.
She insisted on apologizing for her husband’s behaviour.
I apologize that I can’t come to the wedding.
I apologize for not being able to come to the wedding.
apologize (to sb) for (doing) sth: ‘I’d like to apologize for causing you so much trouble.’
88
appear
Suddenly, a bright flash of lightning appeared.
Suddenly, there was a bright flash of lightning.
We don’t want any more wars to appear.
We don’t want there to be any more wars.
A simple way of saying that something happens or develops is to use there + be: ‘Suddenly, there
was a loud bang and all the lights went out.’ ‘There have been several serious accidents along this
stretch of the road.’ ‘This time I don’t want there to be any mistakes.’
Unemployment appears in nearly all developed countries.
Unemployment occurs in nearly all developed countries.
Unfortunately, another problem has appeared.
Unfortunately, another problem has occurred.
appear = (1) become visible or (suddenly) be seen: ‘Small red patches appeared all over the child’s
back.’ ‘A minute later the manager appeared and asked what was wrong.’(2) (of something new)
become available or be seen for the first time: ‘The first edition appeared in 1987.’ ‘The new
model will not appear in the shops until the end of the year.’ ‘When did dinosaurs first appear?’
occur = (1) (of unplanned events) happen: ‘The crash occurred just minutes after take-off.’ ‘These
storms usually occur in the late afternoon.’ (2) exist or be found (in a particular place): ‘The
Japanese ‘f’ sound does not occur in European languages.’
If he were alive, he would appear a lot of good films.
If he were alive, he would appear in a lot of good films.
Recently she has appeared on several TV commercials.
Recently she has appeared in several TV commercials.
appear on television, a television channel: ‘This is the first time that Brill has appeared on
television.’ ‘He is scheduled to appear on Channel 4 next month.’
appear on/in a television programme: ‘He’s always appearing on/in BBC sports programmes.’
‘We asked the Home Office to appear on/in this programme, but they refused.’
appear in a film, play, show, television commercial: ‘What’s the name of that young actor who
appeared in Jurassic Park?’ ‘Before that she had appeared in a Broadway production of West Side
Story.’
There appears a haphazard attitude among the younger generation.
There appears to be a haphazard attitude among the younger generation.
there appears/appeared + to be + noun phrase (= seem): ‘There appears to be a shortage of
paper.’ ‘There appears to have been a breakdown in communication.’
89
apply
I’ve applied a one-year course in computer studies.
I’ve applied for a one-year course in computer studies.
I don’t have enough experience to apply to the job.
I don’t have enough experience to apply for the job.
apply (to an organization) for a job, course, scholarship etc.: ‘She has applied for the post of
Senior Lecturer.’
The new tax law applies only on people with large incomes.
The new tax law applies only to people with large incomes.
apply to sb/sth (= be aimed at): ‘The club’s rules and regulations apply to all members.’
90
appointment
I was very nervous during the appointment and I’m sure they’ll give the job to
someone else.
I was very nervous during the interview and I’m sure they’ll give the job to
someone else.
appointment = an arrangement that you have made to see a doctor, dentist, business person, etc
at a particular time: ‘You can’t see the manager without an appointment.’ ‘My appointment was
for ten thirty.’
interview = a formal meeting at which people ask you questions to see if you are suitable for a
particular job, course of study, etc: ‘If they’re interested in your application, they’ll ask you to go
for an interview.’
I had an appointment with Takumi, a friend of mine.
I had arranged to meet Takumi, a friend of mine.
You make an appointment to see a doctor, principal, business person, etc: ‘I’ve got an
appointment to see Dr Tanner on Tuesday.’ You arrange to meet/see a friend, relative etc: ‘We’ve
arranged to meet Alan at the swimming pool.’
91
appreciate
I don’t appreciate magazines or newspapers that have been censored.
I don’t like magazines or newspapers that have been censored.
appreciate = like or enjoy something because you have studied it and understand the value of it:
‘I’ve never appreciated modern art.’ ‘It was during my years in Paris that I learned to appreciate
good wine.’
I would greatly appreciate if you could send me Ray’s address.
I would greatly appreciate it if you could send me Ray’s address.
appreciate + it (+ if/when clause): ‘I’m sure she’d appreciate it if you could give her a hand.’ See
also GRANTED
92
approach
He approached to my table and took a seat opposite me.
He approached my table and took a seat opposite me.
approach sb/sth (WITHOUT to): ‘One of the girls approached our car and held out her hand.’
93
appropriate
The third paragraph of the essay is not appropriate.
The third paragraph of the essay is not relevant.
Will you please send me all the appropriate information?
Will you please send me all the relevant information?
appropriate = suitable in a particular situation: ‘Once we know more about the cause of the
problem, we can take appropriate action.’ ‘To offer them more money at this stage would not be
appropriate.’
relevant = having a clear connection with what you are doing or talking about: ‘I’ll try to answer
any questions, as long as they are relevant.’ ‘You cannot enter the country unless you have
obtained all the relevant documents.’
Some bottles are not appropriate for recycling.
Some bottles are not suitable for recycling.
She is clearly the most appropriate person for the job.
She is clearly the most suitable person for the job.
Appropriate and suitable have similar meanings and are sometimes interchangeable: ‘We’re still
waiting for a suitable/an appropriate moment to break the news to them.’
When you mean ‘having the necessary qualities, skills etc, the usual word is suitable: ‘The hotel
isn’t suitable for families with children.’
94
approve
Those who approve the death penalty claim that life imprisonment is not effective.
Those who approve of the death penalty claim that life imprisonment is not
effective.
Some husbands do not approve the idea of their wives having a job.
Some husbands do not approve of the idea of their wives having a job.
approve sth (Without of) = formally accept a plan, proposal or application: ‘The use of the new
drug has yet to be approved by the Medical Research Council.’
approve of sb/sth = think that someone or something is good: ‘I’m sure that most athletes will
approve of the new rules on drug testing.’ ‘I don’t approve of sending young children to boarding
school.’
95
approximately
I arrived in LA approximately a month ago.
I arrived in L.A. about a month ago.
The party should end at approximately midnight.
The party should end at around midnight.
The train fare is approximately £20.
The train fare is roughly £20.
Approximately is used mainly in formal written styles: ‘It is estimated that, during the period in
question, approximately 47,000 cars were stolen in the London area alone.’
Unless you wish to sound formal, use about, around or roughly.
96
area
A number of different countries and areas face the same problem.
A number of different countries and regions face the same problem.
To refer to one of the very large parts of a country, or to an area which includes more than one
country, use region: ‘This region of France is famous for its wine.’ ‘We apologize to viewers in the
southern region for the poor picture quality.’ ‘This variety of rice is grown mainly in cool
temperate regions.’
97
argue
In the first class after lunch we usually argue.
In the first class after lunch we usually have a discussion.
When people argue (or quarrel), they disagree strongly about something and are often angry or
upset: ‘Parents should try not to argue in front of their children.’ ‘We were always arguing about
silly things, like whose turn it was to do the shopping.’
When people consider a subject from several points of view, they have a discussion or have a
debate (= a formal discussion in which two or more groups take it in turns to present their
opinions).
98
argument
There are several good arguments for people preferring to live in the countryside.
There are several good reasons for people preferring to live in the countryside.
They don’t want children, for purely personal arguments.
They don’t want children, for purely personal reasons.
argument = a reason that you give to support your opinion, especially when you are trying to
persuade someone: ‘The writer’s main argument is that a better train service will take cars off the
road and lead to a healthier environment.’ ‘The argument against higher taxation is very simple.’
reason = something that explains someone’s actions or feelings, or why a particular situation
exists: ‘My main reason for doing the course is to improve my qualifications.’ ‘He’s got to go back
to Mexico, for family reasons.’
99
arise
These problems have been arised as a result of overpopulation.
These problems have arisen as a result of overpopulation.
Arise (arising, arose, arisen) is an intransitive verb, just like arrive, happen etc: ‘When there is a
clear written agreement, these misunderstandings do not arise.’ ‘The problem first arose when I
tried to get a visa.’ ‘Should the need arise, you could sell the Mercedes and buy something
cheaper.’
100
arithmetic
She comes to see me three times a week for help with her arithmetics.
She comes to see me three times a week for help with her arithmetic.
mathematics (WITH s) but arithmetic (WITHOUT s): ‘Arithmetic isn’t difficult if it’s taught
properly.’
See also MATHEMATICS
101
arm
The plan to reduce the arm forces is strongly opposed.
The plan to reduce the armed forces is strongly opposed.
armed = having one or more weapons: ‘Both hijackers are believed to be armed.’
the armed forces = (a country’s) army, navy, and air force
She wouldn’t stop crying until I held her on my arms.
She wouldn’t stop crying until I held her in my arms.
I shall never forget the day he died on my arms.
I shall never forget the day he died in my arms.
(hold sb/sth) in your arms (NOT on): ‘He had a great pile of books in his arms.’
102
armchair
She was sitting on her favourite armchair.
She was sitting in her favourite armchair.
sit (down) in an armchair (NOT on): ‘He sat down in the armchair and almost immediately fell
asleep.’
103
arrival
At his arrival in Vienna, he was surprised not to find his friend.
On his arrival in Vienna, he was surprised not to find his friend.
on/upon sb’s arrival (NOT at): ‘On arrival in Addis Ababa I reported immediately to the British
High Commission.’
The Pope's arrival to the Philippines caused a lot of excitement.
The Pope's arrival in the Philippines caused a lot of excitement.
See Notes at ARRIVE 1, 2
104
arrive
You’ll arrive to London at two in the morning.
You’ll arrive in London at two in the morning.
When the train arrived at Munich, he was still asleep.
When the train arrived in Munich, he was still asleep.
arrive/arrival in a country, city etc: ‘I’ll be arriving in Hong Kong in time for Chinese New Year.’
She arrived the station just in time to catch the train.
She arrived at the station just in time to catch the train.
We arrived to the hotel in time for dinner.
We arrived at the hotel in time for dinner.
arrive/arrival at a building, station, airport etc: ‘Make sure you arrive at the airport with plenty of
lime to spare.’ See also HOME 1
105
arouse
If your feelings arouse easily, you cannot concentrate.
If your feelings are easily aroused, you cannot concentrate.
Arouse is a transitive verb: ‘The chairman’s resignation is bound to arouse new fears about the
company’s future.’ ‘My suspicions were aroused when I noticed that the car had been resprayed.’
106
art
The college offers both science and art subjects.
The college offers both science and arts subjects.
I worked as a tutor in the Faculty of Art and Social Sciences.
I worked as a tutor in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences.
Subjects of study are divided into the sciences (e.g. biology, physics, chemistry) and the arts (e.g.
history, French, geography): ‘If you don’t like numbers, you should stick to the arts.’ The noun arts
(WITH -s) is often used in front of another noun: ‘I’m studying for an arts degree.’
107
artificial
There are two artificial lakes - one for swimming and one for fishing.
There are two man-made lakes - one for swimming and one for fishing.
The city has suffered both natural and artificial disasters.
The city has suffered both natural and man-made disasters.
artificial = not made of natural materials: ‘I still prefer sugar to all those artificial sweeteners.’
‘Most people look better under artificial light.’
man-made = made or caused by people, although sometimes having a natural appearance: ‘This
canal is the longest man-made waterway in the world.’ ‘It’s hard to believe that these enormous
caves are actually man-made.’
He managed to lose weight by eating artificial diet foods.
He managed to lose weight by eating synthetic diet foods.
I am worried about taking artificial products into the body.
I am worried about taking synthetic products into the body.
I never eat artificial foods.
I never eat synthetic foods/food substitutes.
synthetic = not natural but made by a chemical process: ‘Many old herbal remedies have been
replaced by synthetic drugs.’
108
artistic
The country’s artistic treasures should be left where they are.
The country’s art treasures should be left where they are.
Students coming from artistic schools can join the Academy of Arts.
Students coming from art schools can join the Academy of Arts.
artistic = (1) showing the skill or imagination of an artist: ‘Both my parents were highly
imaginative and artistic.’ (2) connected with art or artists: ‘His paintings have little artistic merit.’
art = things produced by artists such as paintings and sculptures. This word is used as a noun and
to modify another noun: ‘The portrait is a fine example of early Renaissance art.’ ‘She owns one of
the finest art collections in Europe.’
109
as
His skin is not as the skin of a young man.
His skin is not like the skin of a young man.
It looked very fragile and so I handled it as china.
It looked very fragile and so I handled it like china.
In comparisons, the word that is usually used in front of a noun or noun phrase is like (NOT as):
‘James is very tall, just like his father.’ ‘Their car is like ours - old and full of rust.’
As is used in the patterns (not) as ... as, not so ... as, and the same (...) as: ‘James is as tall as his
father.’ ‘Their car is the same colour as ours.’
The book is concerned with important social issues as child abuse and women’s
rights.
The book is concerned with important social issues such as child abuse and
women’s rights.
The book is concerned with important social issues like child abuse and women’s
rights.
Examples of a class or category are introduced by such as or like (NOT as): ‘Serious diseases such
as AIDS and cancer can cause a great deal of suffering.’
She looked at everyone as she were their superior.
She looked at everyone as if she were their superior.
I suddenly felt as I was fifteen again.
I suddenly felt as if I was/were fifteen again.
To compare a real situation with an imaginary or remembered situation, use as if or as though
(NOT as): ‘She came straight over and spoke to me as if we had known each other for years.’ See
also WAS
As our room was upstairs, so we didn’t hear him.
As our room was upstairs, we didn’t hear him.
Our room was upstairs and so we didn’t hear him.
See Note at so 1
110
as if
I was treated as if an old friend.
I was treated as if I was/were an old friend.
I was treated like an old friend.
Do not use a noun phrase immediately after as if and as though: ‘She looked at me as if/though
she’d never seen me before.’ ‘He walked with difficulty, as if/though (he were) in pain.’ See also
WAS
as long as
I’ll go with you as long as I won’t have to sing.
I’ll go with you as long as I don’t have to sing.
See Language Note at WILL
as soon as
111
as well
I’ll pay you as soon as I will receive the parcel.
I’ll pay you as soon as I receive/I’ve received the parcel.
I don’t have a car and I don’t want one as well.
I don’t have a car and I don’t want one either.
See Note at TOO 2
As good Spaniards, they know as well how to enjoy life.
As good Spaniards, they also know how to enjoy life.
As good Spaniards, they know how to enjoy life as well/too.
Could you bring as well a tape recorder?
Could you also bring a tape recorder?
Could you bring a tape recorder as well/too?
As well usually goes at the end of the clause: ‘Do we have to invite their husbands as well?’
The book is useful for teachers and pupils as well.
The book is useful for teachers and pupils alike.
To emphasize that something is equally true for each of the people, groups or things mentioned,
use alike: ‘This new medical dictionary will serve doctors and nurses alike.’
as well as
Each week he wrote her three letters, as well as telephoned her,
Each week he wrote her three letters, as well as telephoning her.
as well as + v-ing: ‘Did you realize that, as well as being a dress designer, she manages a chain of
health food shops?’
112
ashamed
I always feel ashamed when I have to speak in public,
I always feel embarrassed when I have to speak in public.
ashamed = guilty and disgusted with yourself because of something (bad) that you have done:
‘Anyone who steals from the poor should be ashamed of themselves:
embarrassed = feeling socially uncomfortable or anxious: ‘You can imagine how embarrassed I
felt when I couldn’t pay the bill.’
113
ask
We have to ask to ourselves whether such films should be censored.
We have to ask ourselves whether such films should be censored.
She asked to me to tell her a story.
She asked me to tell her a story.
ask sb (NOT to sb): ‘He asked me if I could give him a lift to the station:
She asked me what was the time.
She asked me what the time was.
They asked him what would he like to do.
They asked him what he would like to do.
When the object of the sentence is a wh- clause, the subject and the verb in the wh- clause do not
change places. Compare: ‘How old are you?’ ‘She asked me how old I was:
114
aspect
From a biological aspect, the two plants are very similar.
From a biological point of view, the two plants are very similar.
History can be studied in many different aspects.
History can be studied from many different points of view.
aspect = one of the parts or features of a situation, idea, problem, etc; ‘Modern technology affects
all aspects of our daily lives: ‘The book concentrates on the cruel aspects of war.’
point of view = a particular way of looking at a situation, event, problem, etc: ‘From a
vegetarian’s point of view, these new controls on meat preparation are of little interest: ‘What
does the process of getting old mean from a medical point of view?’ ‘I wish you’d try and see
things from my point of view for a change.’
Another function of newspapers is to shape public opinion and in this aspect the
Guardian is very influential indeed.
Another function of newspapers is to shape public opinion and in this respect the
Guardian is very influential indeed.
To refer back to something that you have just said, use in this respect (NOT in this aspect): ‘Mr
Jones has far more experience than the other applicants, and in this respect I’d say that he is the
strongest candidate:
At one time it seemed as if men were stronger than women in every aspect.
At one time it seemed as if men were stronger than women in every respect.
When you wish to control the strength of a statement, use in some/several/certain/many/all
respects or in one/this/every respect: ‘In many respects she is the best teacher I’ve ever had.’ ‘In
some respects the two cultures are very similar.’
115
assassinate
He was charged with assassinating a taxi-driver.
He was charged with murdering a taxi-driver.
See Language Note at KILL
116
assassin
The prison is full of crooks, thieves and assassins.
The prison is full of crooks, thieves and murderers.
See Language Note at KILL
117
assist
All members are required to assist to the meeting.
All members are required to attend the meeting.
The school where I am going to assist is in Cambridge.
The school that I am going to attend is in Cambridge.
assist = (formal) help: ‘Should you have difficulty in finding a book, the library staff will be pleased
to assist you.’
attend = (formal) (1) be present at a meeting or event; go to: ‘He’s had to cancel the trip in order
to attend his mother’s funeral.’ (2) be a member of something that has regular meetings, such as
a school or class; go to: ‘The couples who attended the prenatal classes found childbirth much
easier, especially the wives.’ See also ATIEND 1
One of the prison guards assisted them to escape.
One of the prison guards assisted them in their escape.
One of the prison guards assisted them in escaping.
assist (sb) in/with sth: ‘A Swiss rescue team is being flown in to assist in the search for survivors.’
‘I’ve been asked to assist with the wedding arrangements.’
assist (sb) in doing sth (NOT to do): ‘Our main job is to assist foreign governments in developing
their economies.’
Ask Susie to assist you.
Ask Susie to help you.
Assist is used only in formal styles. See Note at ASSIST 1.
118
assure
I can assure that your name will not be mentioned.
I can assure you that your name will not be mentioned.
I assure that the meeting will not last very long.
I assure you that the meeting will not last very long.
assure sb that: ‘I assure you that we are doing everything we can to avoid further delays.’
119
asylum
Asylums are typically seen as places where people go to die.
Hospices are typically seen as places where people go to die.
asylum = (old-fashioned) a hospital for the mentally ill, nowadays known as a psychiatric hospital
hospice = a special type of hospital for people who are dying
Note also the term old people’s home = a place where old people go to live when they need
someone to look after them: ‘She’d rather stay in an old people’s home than be a burden to her
family.’
120
at
I always have a good breakfast at the morning.
I always have a good breakfast in the morning.
At afternoon I visited the Fitzwilliam Museum.
In the afternoon I visited the Fitzwilliam Museum.
See Language Note at TIME
In Germany we have a lot of snow at wintertime.
In Germany we have a lot of snow in wintertime.
I was married at 1989 and have two children, a boy and a girl.
I was married in 1989 and have two children, a boy and a girl.
See Language Note at TIME
I bought the tape just a week ago, at 4th December.
I bought the tape just a week ago, on 4th December.
We were all very tired at the last day of our journey.
We were all very tired on the last day of our journey.
See Language Note at TIME
121
athletic
A lot of athletic reporters write for the magazine.
A lot of athletics reporters write for the magazine.
The race was organized by the National Athletic Association.
The race was organized by the National Athletics Association.
athletic = physically strong and good at running, jumping, etc: ‘I’ve never been very athletic.’
athletics = sports such as running, jumping, and throwing the javelin: ‘I’ve never been very good
at athletics.’ The noun athletics (WITH -s) is often used in front of another noun: ‘He’s been
selected for the athletics team.’
122
attempt
His attempt of seizing power was defeated by the army.
His attempt to seize power was defeated by the army.
(make) an attempt to do/at doing sth: ‘The government’s attempts to control inflation have
failed miserably.’ ‘He made several unsuccessful attempts at getting the car started.’
123
attend
I’m sorry that I won’t be able to attend your wedding .
I’m sorry that I won’t be able to be at your wedding.
I’m afraid that I can’t attend your party .
I’m afraid that I can’t make it to your party.
Attend is used mainly in formal styles: ‘All committee members are expected to attend the
meeting.’ In other styles use be at, come/go (to) or (informal) make it (to): ‘Apart from John and
Sue, who else will be at the party?’ ‘Did you go to the match on Saturday?’ ‘We hope you can
come but don’t worry if you can’t make it.’
It’s very important to attend to all the classes.
It’s very important to attend all the classes.
I won’t be able to attend at the meeting.
I won’t be able to attend the meeting.
attend a meeting, class, school, etc (WITHOUT to or at)
124
attention
Everyone should pay attention to avoiding stressful situations.
Everyone should take care to avoid stressful situations.
Pay attention when refuelling and try not to spill any petrol.
Be careful when refuelling and try not to spill any petrol.
When talking about a situation that could be dangerous or harmful, use be careful or take care
(NOT pay attention): ‘When the road surface is wet, drivers should take extra care.’ ‘Be careful to
keep all medicines out of the reach of children.’
People should pay more attention on what they eat.
People should pay more attention to what they eat.
pay attention to sb/sth (NOT on/in/at): ‘This part of the course pays special attention to the
spoken language.’
When driving, you must give your best attention to what you are doing.
When driving, you must give your full attention to what you are doing.
full/undivided attention: ‘I assure you that this matter will receive our undivided attention.’
The attention is a bit slow, but the waiters are always polite.
The service is a bit slow, but the waiters are always polite.
service = the help and attention that you get from the people who work in a shop or restaurant:
‘We complained about the poor service.’
To the attention of: Mrs H. Greaves, Principal.
For the attention of: Mrs H. Greaves, Principal.
for the attention of (NOT to/at)
125
audience
The priest stands in front of the bride and groom, facing the audience.
The priest stands in front of the bride and groom, facing the congregation.
audience = the people who go to watch/listen to a film, play, concert, public lecture, etc: ‘The
group has played to vast audiences all over the world.’ ‘At the end of the talk, members of the
audience were invited to ask questions.’
congregation = the people who attend a church service:
126
authority
Those who bend the rules are reported to the authority.
Those who bend the rules are reported to the authorities.
The authority had refused them even their basic civil rights.
The authorities had refused them even their basic civil rights.
To refer in a general way to the officials who make all the important decisions in a country, use
the authorities: ‘The authorities estimate that nearly 100,000 immigrants have entered the
country illegally.’ As a countable noun, authority refers to an official group or organization that
controls an area or activity: ‘You can claim housing benefit from your local authority.’
127
average
The article was about average British people and their reluctance to learn foreign
languages.
The article was about typical British people and their reluctance to learn foreign
languages.
The Los Angeles Medical Centre announced that the average AIDS patient requires
about two to three months of hospitalization.
The Los Angeles Medical Centre announced that the typical AIDS patient requires
about two to three months of hospitalization.
average = not special or unusual in any way; of the usual standard or level: ‘Anyone of average
intelligence knows that drugs are dangerous.’ ‘The average student takes about two hours to
complete the test.’
typical = having the same appearance, behaviour or characteristics as a particular type of person
or thing: ‘McGarron looked like a typical American car salesman.’ ‘John’s wife is a typical teacher.’
The average of hours spent watching television has increased.
The average number of hours spent watching television has increased.
The average hours spent watching television have increased.
an/the average of + NUMBER: ‘The average of 3,4 and 8 is 5.’ ‘The test results produced an
average of 65 per cent.’
the average number/amount/level/age of + NOUN: ‘The average age of the children is five years
and seven months.’
an/the average + NOUN: ‘The average salary is $2100 a month.’
128
avoid
He put his hand over my mouth to avoid me to scream.
He put his hand over my mouth to prevent me from screaming.
These new measures are intended to avoid the spread of the disease.
These new measures are intended to prevent the spread of the disease.
These new measures are intended to prevent the disease from spreading.
avoid (doing) sth = be careful not to do something: ‘The best way to lose weight is to avoid eating
fatty foods.’ ‘These drugs are dangerous and should be avoided.’ ‘Try to avoid subjects that can
cause offence.’
prevent sb/sth (from doing sth) = stop someone or something from doing something; stop
something from happening: ‘The wall is supposed to prevent dogs from getting into the garden.’
‘It is hoped that the new speed limit will help to prevent accidents.’
He is such a nice man that you can’t avoid liking him.
He is such a nice man that you can’t help liking him.
I couldn’t avoid falling in love with her.
I couldn’t help falling in love with her.
can’t help doing sth = cannot stop yourself from doing something: ‘Whenever he tries to sing, I
just can’t help laughing.’
I told him that we would be grateful if he would kindly avoid ringing our doorbell
after midnight.
I told him that we would be grateful if he would kindly refrain from ringing our
doorbell after midnight.
refrain from doing sth = (formal) stop yourself from doing something because other people do not
like it: ‘Hotel guests are asked to refrain from smoking in the restaurants.’
I avoid to use a computer for personal letters.
I avoid using a computer for personal letters.
avoid doing sth (NOT to do): ‘He obviously wants to avoid getting involved in the dispute.’
129
await
We await for your reply and apologize for any inconvenience.
We await your reply and apologize for any inconvenience.
await sb/sth (WITHOUT for): ‘The committee is awaiting a decision from head office.’
130
awake
I get up at seven o’clock but I awake an hour earlier.
I get up at seven o’clock but I wake up an hour earlier.
The next morning we awoke up at 7 o’clock to catch the train.
The next morning we woke up at 7 o’clock to catch the train.
Awake is used mainly as an adjective: ‘It’s gone ten o’clock and the children are still awake.’ As a
verb, awake (WITHOUT up) is used only in literary styles: ‘I awoke to the sound of church bells.’
The usual verb is wake up: ‘She told me that she keeps waking up in the middle of the night.’ ‘I
was woken up by a loud whistling noise.’
131
award
The insurance company has offered an award to anyone who can provide information about the theft.
The insurance company has offered a reward to anyone who can provide information about the theft.
award = (1) a prize, certificate, or medal that is given for doing something very well: ‘The award for this year’s best actor went to Harry Cohen.’ (2) a sum of money that someone wins in a court of law: ‘Each survivor of the disaster received an award of $20,000.’ reward = (1) something that you are given by someone who is pleased by what you have done: ‘As a reward for eating all her dinner, she was given an ice cream.’ (2) a sum of money that someone promises to pay to the person who provides useful information, usually in connection with a crime that has been committed or something that has been lost: ‘A reward of $5,000 has been offered for information leading to the recovery of the necklace.’
132
baby
Sitting in the next seat was a young woman who was having a baby.
Sitting in the next seat was a young woman who was expecting a baby.
have a baby = give birth to a baby: ‘She’s worried about having the baby at home in case there
are complications.’
be expecting a baby = be pregnant: ‘Janet is expecting another baby.’
Note that be having a baby can be used to mean ‘be pregnant’ but this should be avoided when
there is a danger of confusion.
133
bad
I’m afraid I speak English very bad.
I’m afraid I speak English very badly.
Bad is an adjective: ‘I tried to ignore the child’s bad behaviour.’
Badly is an adverb: ‘The child behaved very badly indeed.’
Of course, there are also bad things about living in a city.
Of course, there are also disadvantages to living in a city.
It’s a bad thing that the population is increasing so quickly.
It’s unfortunate that the population is increasing so quickly.
The phrase bad thing/s is generally over-used and often sounds unnatural.
See also THING
134
badly
My shoulders were sunburnt badly.
My shoulders were badly sunburnt.
Some were killed and others were injured badly.
Some were killed and others were badly injured.
badly + past participle: ‘The other car was badly damaged.’
135
baggage
All the passengers carried their own baggages.
All the passengers carried their own baggage.
Baggage is an uncountable noun: ‘Baggage must not be left unattended in the terminal building.’
‘How many pieces of baggage do you have?’
136
barely
Although I am a member of the club, I barely go there.
Although I am a member of the club, I rarely go there.
barely = almost not; only just: ‘His handwriting is barely legible.’ (= you can only just read it) ‘The
fog was so bad that we barely made it to the motel.’
rarely/seldom/hardly ever = almost never: ‘He rarely makes any serious mistakes.’
137
base
Political stability provides the base for economic development.
Political stability provides the basis for economic development.
base = (1) the main part of something: ‘Most of the paints we produce have an oil base.’ (2) the
lowest part of something: ‘The base of the column is made of marble.’
basis = the very important thing from which something else develops or is made possible: ‘The
basis of a successful marriage is mutual respect.’ ‘Newton’s discoveries provided the basis for
future research.’
The first role play base on a conversation at a hotel reception desk.
The first role play was based on a conversation at a hotel reception desk.
be based on/upon = be developed from: ‘Republican policy is based on the idea that people
should compete with each other.’ ‘The film is based on a popular Bengali novel.’
138
basis
The course is for students with a basis knowledge of English.
The course is for students with a basic knowledge of English.
Basis is a noun. See Note at BASE 1
Basic is an adjective: ‘basic computer skills’, ‘basic principles’
I always take a bath before going to bed.
I always have a bath before going to bed.
In British English the phrase is have a bath (NOT take): ‘There isn’t enough water to have a bath.’
Take a bath is used in American English.
139
bathe
Most nights when I come home, I’m too tired to bathe.
Most nights when I come home, I’m too tired to have a bath.
In British English, bathe, have/go for a bathe and go bathing mean ‘swim, play or just relax in the
water’ (NOT ‘get clean in a bath’): ‘It was the first time I’d bathed in the Red Sea.’ Nowadays most
people use swim, have/go for a swim or go swimming for this meaning. In American English,
bathe means ‘get clean in a bath’.
140
battle
Many young Americans refused to battle in Vietnam.
Many young Americans refused to fight in Vietnam.
battle = struggle to do or get something: ‘Doctors are still battling to save the child’s life.’
fight = use violence to hurt or kill people: ‘My grandfather fought in the Spanish Civil War.’
141
be
Meanwhile, Sarah was beginning to be upset.
Meanwhile, Sarah was beginning to get upset.
When she didn’t arrive, I started to be anxious.
When she didn’t arrive, I started to become anxious.
When talking about a change in state, use get/become/grow + adjective (NOT be): ‘I’ve put a
couple of apples in your bag in case you get hungry.’ ‘The children were growing impatient.’
After six months he was the general manager.
After six months he became the general manager.
When talking about a change in state, use become + noun phrase (NOT be): ‘In 1975 she became
leader of the Conservative Party.’
Nowadays is very difficult to get a job.
Nowadays it is very difficult to get a job.
See IT 1
On Saturdays is usually a party at someone’s house.
On Saturdays there is usually a party at someone’s house.
See THERE 1
142
bear
The government also controls the number of children that a couple can bear.
The government also controls the number of children that a couple can have.
I want to get married and bear children.
I want to get married and have children.
Bear (sb) a child is used only in formal styles and refers to the physical process of giving birth: ‘She
bore her husband two daughters and one son.’ The subject of bear is always a woman.
When you are talking about beginning a family or the number of children in a family, use have
(NOT bear): ‘We’d like 10 have children while we’re still young.’
I can’t bear any longer,’ he said. ‘I’m ready to resign.’
I can’t bear it any longer,’ he said. ‘I’m ready to resign.’
I can’t bear if someone starts cracking their knuckles.
I can’t bear it if someone starts cracking their knuckles.
can’t bear + it (+ if/when clause): ‘I can’t bear it when people start complaining about nothing.’
143
beautiful
Thank you for your beautiful letter.
Thank you for your interesting/newsy letter.
See Language Note at KILL
144
become
See Note at so 1
Eventually I became to like Singapore.
Eventually I came to like Singapore.
Become means ‘start to be’ and is followed by an adjective or noun (NOT a verb): ‘We didn’t meet
again until after she had become famous.’ ‘Brunei became an independent member of the
Commonwealth in 1984.’
When talking about a gradual change in the way a person feels or thinks about someone or
something, use come/grow + to-v (NOT become): ‘Although she had come to dislike her boss, she
tried not to let it show.’ ‘As the months passed, I actually grew to enjoy his company.’
When my first child was born, I became to think seriously about my future.
When my first child was born, I began to think seriously about my future.
begin/start to do sth (NOT become): ‘My evenings were free and so I began to learn German.’
The housing problem in Hong Kong becomes more serious.
The housing problem in Hong Kong is becoming more serious.
To refer to something that is still happening or taking place, use the present progressive tense of
become: ‘It’s becoming difficult to find somewhere to park.’
145
bed
Every morning I have to get up from my bed very early.
Every morning I have to get up very early.
I left my bed at 8 a.m. and had a shower.
I got up at 8 a.m. and had a shower.
get up = get out of bed and start your day: ‘I’ve got to get up early in the morning to catch the
7.00 train.’
I decided to stay in my bed this morning.
I decided to stay in bed this morning.
I never go to my bed before 11 p.m.
I never go to bed before 11 p.m.
stay in bed, go to bed, get out of bed, lie in bed, be in bed (WITHOUT my, his, the, etc)
Compare: ‘Who’s been sleeping in my bed?’ asked Daddy Bear.
146
been
I hadn’t been in Scotland before.
I hadn’t been to Scotland before.
Have you ever been in California?
Have you ever been to California?
been in = been living or staying in: ‘I’ve been in Paris since the beginning of June.’ ‘How long has
Wendy been in hospital?’
been to = gone to and come back from; visited: ‘I’ve been to Paris three times.’ ‘I’ve been to the
hospital to see Wendy.’
Last year I’ve been to England for a month.
Last year I went to England for a month.
First of all we’ve been to UCLA to see Ray’s brother.
First of all we went to UCLA to see Ray’s brother.
When you are talking about a specific visit or trip that you made in the past, use went to (NOT
have been to). Compare: ‘I’ve been to England and Italy, but I haven’t been to France.’ ‘I went to
England in 1993 and to Italy in 1994.’
147
before
Before forty years the journey took twice as long.
Forty years ago the journey took twice as long.
Not so long before we used animals for transportation.
Not so long ago we used animals for transportation.
ago = before ‘now’, the moment of speaking: ‘Her plane landed ten minutes ago. In few, here she
comes now.’ ‘I saw him just five minutes ago." (=five minutes before now)
before = before then, a time in the past: ‘l went to the airport last Monday to meet Sue, I hadn’t
been to the airport before.’ (= before last Monday). ‘I saw him last Friday in London and two days
before in Leeds.’
My parents first came here before 40 years ago.
My parents first came here 40 years ago.
See Language Note at TIME
148
beg
I beg you to send me the information as soon as possible.
I should be grateful if you would send me the information as soon as possible.
When beg means ‘ask someone to do something’, it is nearly always used as a reporting verb.
Compare: ‘Please forgive me.’ ‘He begged her to forgive him.’
To make a request in a formal letter, use l/we should/would be grateful if ... (NOT I/We beg you
...): ‘I would be grateful if you could raise this question at the next meeting.’
149
beginning
In the beginning of the century people travelled from Britain to Egypt by sea.
At the beginning of the century people travelled from Britain to Egypt by sea.
See Language Note at FIRST
At the beginning I thought that the switch was broken but then I discovered it was
a fuse.
At first I thought that the switch was broken but then I discovered it was a fuse.
See Language Note at FIRST
150
behave
The magazine teaches parents how to behave with their children.
The magazine teaches parents how to behave towards their children.
behave towards sb (NOT with): ‘I’ve been noting the way he behaves towards you and I’m not
impressed.’
151
behaviour
We were surprised by their peculiar behaviours.
We were surprised by their peculiar behaviour.
Such a behaviour can easily cause offence.
Such behaviour can easily cause offence.
Behaviour is an uncountable noun.
Sometimes Juan has a very strange behaviour.
Sometimes Juan behaves very strangely.
Sometimes Juan’s behaviour is very strange.
There are very few people having such a behaviour.
Very few people behave in such a way.
Instead of using have + behaviour, use behaviour + be or use the verb behave + adverb: ‘His
behaviour is atrocious.’ ‘He behaves atrociously
152
behind
At night I keep my wallet behind my pillow.
At night I keep my wallet under my pillow.
behind = at the back of something: ‘Lizzie ran and hid behind a tree.’
under (or beneath/underneath) = directly below something, and sometimes touching or covered
by it: ‘Come and stand under my umbrella.’ ‘I eventually found the letter under a pile of old
newspapers.’
153
believe
You should not believe in everything you hear.
You should not believe everything you hear.
She couldn’t believe in what was happening to her.
She couldn’t believe what was happening to her.
believe in sth = (1) accept that something exists: ‘Do you believe in ghosts?’ ‘James still believes in
Father Christmas.’ (2) think that something is good: ‘I don’t believe in capital punishment.’ ‘I
believe in getting a good night’s sleep before an examination.’
believe sth = accept that something is true or real: ‘I believe every word she said.’ ‘I couldn’t
believe what I was seeing.’
I could hardly believe in my eyes.
I could hardly believe my eyes.
could not/hardly believe your ears/eyes (WITHOUT in)
I deeply believe that tourists will stop coming here.
I firmly believe that tourists will stop coming here.
My brother deeply believes in freedom of speech.
My brother strongly believes in freedom of speech.
Firmly/strongly/fervently/sincerely/truly believe (NOT deeply): ‘I sincerely believe that he had no
connection with the crime.’
154
belong
‘Are these gloves belonging to you?’ she asked.
‘Do these gloves belong to you?’ she asked.
See Language Note at INCLUDE
The Toyota is belong to my wife.
The Toyota belongs to my wife.
Patreze is belong to the Williams team.
Patreze belongs to the Williams team.
Belong is a verb (NOT an adjective).
155
beloved
He spends as much time as he can with his beloved children.
He spends as much time as he can with his children.
Beloved is used only in literary and humorous styles: ‘There were many regrets in her life, but her
beloved son was not one of them.’ ‘He wants to move closer to his beloved football team, Chester
City.’ It is particularly common on gravestones and old-fashioned birthday cards: To the memory
of Alice Holt. beloved wife of Thomas Holt.’
156
below
Below the table there were some empty wine bottles.
Under the table there were some empty wine bottles.
below =at or to a lower level than something: ‘My room is on the third floor, and John’s is on the
floor below.’ ‘Our helicopter hovered just below the summit so that we could film the rescue.’
under (or beneath/underneath) = directly below something, and sometimes touching or covered
by it: ‘Come and stand under my umbrella.’ ‘I eventually found the letter under a pile of old
newspapers.’
The below report describes my recent stay at the Hotel Grove.
The report below describes my recent stay at the Hotel Grove.
When below refers to the position of something on a page, it comes after the noun: ‘Last month’s
sales figures are set out in the table below.’
Note that above can go before or after the noun: ‘the table above’, ‘the above table’.
The room rates are much below average for hotels in this area.
The room rates are far below average for hotels in this area.
far below (NOT much): ‘The cost of the trip was far below what we had expected.’
Compare: The room rates were much far lower than we had expected.’
157
benefit
This new service should benefit to all our customers.
This new service should benefit all our customers.
The trade agreement will benefit for both parties.
The trade agreement will benefit both parties.
benefit sb (WITHOUT to/for): The new tax laws will not benefit the unemployed.’
It is not true that only businessmen are benefited by tourism.
It is not true that only businessmen benefit from tourism.
Instead of using be benefited by (passive), use benefit from/by. The subject of benefit from/by is
the receiver of the benefit: ‘Do you think she has benefited from going to extra classes?’ ‘The room
would benefit by altering the size of the window.’
158
beside/besides
We need to discover another source of income, beside oil.
We need to discover another source of income, besides oil.
We went swimming in the river besides my house.
We went swimming in the river beside my house.
beside = next to: ‘She walked over and sat down beside me.’
besides = in addition to; also: ‘Who did you Invite besides Tom and Mary?’ ‘Besides tennis, hat
other games do you play?’ ‘I’m too old to apply for the job. Besides, it would mean moving house.’
Beside of the traditional ceremonies, there are also foreign weddings.
Besides the traditional ceremonies, there are also foreign weddings.
Besides of this problem, her husband had lost his job.
Besides this problem, her husband had lost his job.
When you mean ‘in addition to’, use besides (WITHOUT of): ‘Who did you speak to, besides Alice?’
Beside/s of does not exist.
Beside the reduction of unemployment, the government has achieved very little.
Apart from the reduction of unemployment, the government has achieved very
little.
Besides the goalkeeper, who was a disaster, the team played very well.
Apart from the goalkeeper, who was a disaster, the team played very well.
When you want to say that someone or something is not included in your main statement, use
apart from (NOT beside/s): ‘Apart from Peter, everyone had a good time.’
I’d like to have two children. Besides, I hope that the first one will be a girl.
I’d like to have two children and I hope that the first one will be a girl.
Use besides only when you give an additional reason for something: ‘If you’re too busy, I’ll go and
post the letter myself. Besides, I think the walk will do me good.’
159
best
He is the best surgeon of the hospital.
He is the best surgeon in the hospital.
It is one of the best theatres of Spain.
It is one of the best theatres in Spain.
The phrase that follows the best (+ noun) usually begins with in (NOT of): ‘one of the best
restaurants in London’, ‘the best team in the league’, ‘some of the best students in the class’.
We all made our best to see that they enjoyed themselves.
We all did our best to see that they enjoyed themselves.
See Language Note at DO
160
better
German cars are more expensive but they are more better.
German cars are more expensive but they are better.
good, better, best
You better make sure you’re not late again.
You’d better make sure you’re not late again.
My friends warned me that I should better be careful.
My friends warned me that I had better be careful.
had better (not): ‘If the phone rings again, you’d better answer it.’ ‘If it’s a secret, you’d better not
tell me.’
Note that had is usually shortened to d and s may not be heard at all.
‘You’d better to hurry up,’ she shouted .
‘You’d better hurry up,’ she shouted.
had better (not) do sth (NOT to do): ‘You’d better not leave all that money on the table.’
Instead of using a dictionary all the time, you had better try to guess the meaning
of the words.
Instead of using a dictionary all the time, you should try to guess the meanings of
the words.
If people want to be healthy, they had better be more careful about what they eat.
If people want to be healthy, they should be more careful about what they eat.
Had better is used in informal styles when you give someone strong advice about what to do in a
particular situation. The situation usually exists at the moment of speaking and so there is usually
a sense of urgency in the advice: ‘You’d better hurry or you’ll miss the bus.’ ‘You’d better ring your
parents -just in case they’re worrying about you.’
To give advice on a general situation or to say that one course of action is better than another
one, use should, ought to or it would be better to: ‘Parents should teach their children to be kind
to animals.’ ‘Rather than complain and risk upsetting her, it would be better to say nothing.’
161
between
Between all the magazines on the shelves, only one was of any interest.
Among all the magazines on the shelves, only one was of any interest.
He wandered silently between the passengers on the boat.
He wandered silently among the passengers on the boat.
Between is used when there are people or things on either side of someone or something: ‘The
ball went straight between the goalkeeper’s legs.’ ‘The teacher walked up and down between the
rows of desks.’ ‘Give me a number between 4 and 14.’
Among (or amongst) is used when (at least three) people or things are considered as a group or
mass: ‘I eventually found the photograph among a pile of old letters.’
Children between three to five go to kindergarten.
Children between three and five go to kindergarten.
Between June 1987 to March 1990 I was in France.
From June 1987 to March 1990 I was in France.
It will take them between six to eight weeks to finish it.
It will take them between six and eight weeks to finish it.
Use between ... and or from ... to (NOT between ... to).
162
bicycle
I enjoy riding a bicycle and playing badminton.
I enjoy cycling and playing badminton.
In the evenings we usually ride our bicycles.
In the evenings we usually go cycling.
cycling = riding a bicycle as a sport or leisure activity: ‘In the summer I do a lot of cycling.’
Compare: ‘He learned to ride a bicycle at the age of four
163
big
The party was big fun and we all enjoyed ourselves.
The party was great fun and we all enjoyed ourselves.
There is a big possibility that they may not come.
There is a strong possibility that they may not come.
See Language Note Below
164
bit
‘An’ is a bit problematic.
‘An’ is slightly problematic.
The instructions were a little bit confusing.
The instructions were a little confusing.
My diet is a little bit different nowadays.
My diet is slightly different nowadays.
Thank you very much for giving us a bit of your free time.
Thank you very much for giving us a little of your free time.
A bit and a little bit are used mainly in informal styles. In other styles, it is better to use a little,
slightly, rather, quite or somewhat: ‘His brother was somewhat older than we had expected.’
I watched a little bit television and went to bed.
I watched a little television and went to bed.
I watched a bit of television and went to bed.
Use a (little) bit before adjectives: ‘She looked a bit tired.’ Before nouns, use a little or (in informal
styles) a (little) bit of: ‘He could do with a little help.’ ‘He’s been a bit of a nuisance recently.’
He is a little bit too short to be a policeman.
He is a bit/little too short to be a policeman.
He is slightly too short to be a policeman.
The speech was a little bit too formal.
The speech was a bit/little too formal.
The speech was slightly too formal.
Use a bit/little too or slightly/rather/somewhat too (NOT a little bit too): ‘She is still a bit too
young.’ ‘The pears were a little too hard.’ ‘The basic salary is rather too low.’
165
blame
I wasn’t even there so you can’t blame on me.
I wasn’t even there so you can’t blame me.
I wasn’t even there so you can’t blame it on me.
Who is to be blamed about this?
Who is to be blamed for this?
blame sb (for sth): ‘Nobody can blame you for telling the truth.’
blame sth on sb/sth: ‘Whenever children behave badly, people blame it on the teachers.’
Compare: ‘He always tries to put the blame on me.’
166
blind
Some people become blind with the disease.
Some people go blind with the disease.
go blind (not become): ‘When I couldn’t see anything, I thought I’d gone blind.’
Usually he just keeps a blind eye and lets them carry on.
Usually he just turns a blind eye and lets them carry on.
turn a blind eye (to sth) = pretend not to notice something: ‘The government prefers to turn a
blind eye to these activities.’
167
board
Within a week, I found myself on board of an aeroplane.
Within a week, I found myself on board an aeroplane.
on board an aircraft, ship, etc (WITHOUT of): ‘How the child managed to get on board the plane
remains a mystery.’
168
body
His dead body was flown back home for burial.
His body was flown back home for burial.
When it is clear from the context that the person referred to is dead, use body (WITHOUT dead):
‘The police found his body floating in the river.’
169
book
I’m afraid that we’re out of stock but I can book one for you.
I’m afraid that we’re out of stock but I can order one for you.
book = reserve a seat on a plane, a room in a hotel, a table at a restaurant, etc: ‘The train was
packed and I wished I’d booked a seat.’
order = ask for certain goods to be sent to a shop, especially because a customer wants to buy
them: ‘If you want to be sure of getting a daily newspaper, it’s best to order one.’
170
bored
My job at the bank was very bored.
My job at the bank was very boring.
See Note at BORING
I don’t think I’ll ever get bored of the book.
I don’t think I’ll ever get bored with the book.
She soon got bored of talking to him.
She soon got bored with talking to him.
be/get bored with (doing) sth: ‘I’m bored with pasta and tomatoes- I want something different.’
‘I got bored with lying on the beach and went off to explore the town.’
171
boring
We get very boring with the same food every day.
We get very bored with the same food every day.
You’ll be boring with nothing to do.
You’ll be bored with nothing to do.
lf someone or something is boring/exciting/frightening/interesting (-ING), you feel
bored/excited/frightened/interested (-ED): ‘The lecture was terribly boring. Some of us were so
bored that we fell asleep.’
172
born
My name is Ali Shariat and I born in Tehran.
My name is Ali Shariat and I was born in Tehran.
be born: ‘Do you realize that a child is born every few seconds.’ ‘The baby was born in the middle
of the night.’ ‘It was the first time I’d actually watched a child being born.’
I have been born in a town just outside Paris.
I was born in a town just outside Paris.
Use ‘I was born’, ‘They were born’, etc (NOT ‘I have been born’ or ‘I am born’): ‘I’ll never forget the
day when the seven puppies were born.’
He was born in a Catholic family.
He was born into a Catholic family.
be born into a particular type of family, world, etc (NOT in): ‘She was born into a world that was
on the brink of war.’
173
borrow
I asked my friend to borrow me some money.
I asked my friend to lend me some money.
He borrowed me some of his books.
He lent me some of his books.
I borrowed some of his books.
When you borrow something (from someone), you are allowed to use it: ‘Can I borrow one of your
pencils?’
When you lend something (to someone), you let them use it: ‘He asked me to lend him one of my
pencils.’
174
boss
My father is the boss of a small shipping company.
My father is the manager of a small shipping company.
Boss is usually used in informal styles: ‘From the way he acts, you’d think that he was the boss.’
175
both
Both of them have not apologized yet.
Neither of them has apologized yet.
Both the husband and the wife aren’t reliable.
Neither the husband nor the wife is reliable.
See Language Note at NOT
Anne and John both are scientists.
Anne and John are both scientists.
Two of the biggest firms are Apple and IBM, which both are in the computer
business.
Two of the biggest firms are Apple and IBM, which are both in the computer
business.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
176
boundary
The country shares boundaries with Ruanda and Burundi.
The country shares borders with Ruanda and Burundi.
Use boundary when you are talking about an area of land within a country: ‘The Mississippi River
forms a natural boundary between Tennessee and Arkansas.’ ‘Their farm is just inside the
boundary of the National Park.
‘The place where two countries meet is the border: ‘We’re about to cross the border between
Austria and Switzerland.’
177
bread
He’s gone to buy a fresh bread.
He’s gone to buy some fresh bread.
See Language Note at SCENERY
178
break
The family broke just after he was born.
The family broke up just after he was born.
break up = stop being together as a couple or group: ‘Did you know that Carol and Richard have
broken up?’ ‘Can you remember when the Beatles broke up?’
The police had to break the door to get in.
The police had to break down the door to get in.
In an emergency situation, policemen, firemen, etc break down the door of a room or building: ‘If
the door’s locked, you’ll just have to break it down.’
179
breakfast
After the breakfast, we went shopping.
After breakfast, we went shopping.
Before my breakfast I usually go for a run.
Before breakfast I usually go for a run.
When breakfast/lunch/dinner etc refer to an event (rather than to the meal itself), they are used
without at/the/this/my etc: ‘What shall we do after lunch?’ ‘Pam and Simon have invited us to
dinner.’ ‘What time do you have breakfast?’
You use at/he/this/my etc when you refer to the meal itself: ‘We enjoyed the evening, even
though the dinner was cold.’ ‘I don’t usually have time for a cooked breakfast.’
Before I have a breakfast, I usually make my bed.
Before I have (my) breakfast, I usually make my bed.
Every morning my first job is to prepare a breakfast.
Every morning my first job is to prepare (the) breakfast.
have (your) breakfast/lunch/dinner etc (NOT a): ‘Have you had (your) breakfast yet?’
make/prepare (the/your) breakfast/lunch/dinner etc (NOT a): ‘Whose turn is it to make the
dinner tonight?’
Use a/an with breakfast/lunch/dinner etc only when you describe the meal: ‘a cooked breakfast’,
‘a big breakfast’, ‘an American breakfast’.
There wasn’t enough time to eat breakfast.
There wasn’t enough time to have breakfast.
While I am taking breakfast, I listen to the radio.
While I am having breakfast, I listen to the radio.
have (your) breakfast/lunch/dinner etc (NOT eat/take): ‘We had dinner in the hotel restaurant.’
have sth for breakfast/lunch/dinner etc: ‘What did you have for lunch?’ Do not use eat unless
you wish to emphasize the activity of eating. Compare: ‘We prefer to have dinner in the evening.’
‘James always takes a long time to eat his dinner.’
180
breath
She had a very bad cold and couldn’t breath properly.
She had a very bad cold and couldn’t breathe properly.
Breath is a noun. Breathe is a verb.’ The verb is longer than the noun both in its spelling and in its
vowel sound.
181
bribe
He was accused of accepting bribe money.
He was accused of accepting a bribe.
a bribe (NOT bribe money) = money or something valuable that is given to someone in an official
position to persuade them to do something dishonest: ‘As a police officer, what would you do if
someone offered you a bribe?’
182
bring
Would you like me to bring you home?
Would you like me to take you home?
Whenever I go sightseeing, I bring my camera with me.
Whenever I go sightseeing, I take my camera with me.
See Language Note at TAKE
I went back into the house to bring my sunglasses.
I went back into the house to fetch my sunglasses.
See Language Note at TAKE
Global warming is bringing changes in the weather.
Global warming is bringing about changes in the weather.
Nuclear power could bring the destruction of our planet.
Nuclear power could bring about the destruction of our planet.
When you mean ‘finally cause something to happen or exist’, use bring about: ‘These new
manufacturing methods brought about an increase in production.’ ‘The company’s poor
performance was brought about by factors beyond its control.’
Our tourist industry brings a lot of foreign exchange.
Our tourist industry brings in a lot of foreign exchange.
bring in = make or earn (money): ‘The job keeps me busy and brings in a little extra cash.’
183
bring up
I’m not working now because I’m bringing up my baby.
I’m not working now because I’m looking after my baby.
bring up a child: ‘Our parents brought us up to believe in the power of truth.’
look after/take care of a baby: ‘Who looks after the baby while you’re at work?’
I shall never forget the place where I brought up.
I shall never forget the place where I was brought up.
be brought up (by sb): ‘I was brought up to believe that people were basically kind.’
British
I would prefer to study in America or British.
I would prefer to study in America or Britain.
The name of the country is Britain (or Great Britain).
British is an adjective: ‘British industry’, ‘British Airways’.
British Council
See THE 12
I am learning English at British Council.
I am learning English at the British Council.
the British Council: ‘Professor Sinclair’s visit was organized by the British Council.’
I am a student in the British Council.
I am a student at the British Council.
See IN 5
184
broken
The car could not stop because its brakes were broken.
The car could not stop because its brakes were not working.
I turned on the radio but it was broken.
I turned on the radio but it wasn’t working.
broken = physically damaged: ‘a broken windscreen’ not working = not functioning properly: ‘I
can’t ring him because his phone’s not working.’
185
bus
The best way to see London is to get in a bus.
The best way to see London is to get on a bus.
She said I was in the wrong bus.
She said I was on the wrong bus.
be/get on a bus (NOT in): ‘During the rush hour, it’s quicker to walk than get on a bus.’
186
business
I often have to go abroad for business.
I often have to go abroad on business.
My father is now in Paris on his business.
My father is now in Paris on business.
(be/go somewhere) on business: ‘I’m off to Amsterdam tomorrow, on business as usual.’
187
busy
I was busy with cooking the dinner.
I was busy cooking the dinner.
be busy doing sth: ‘She’s busy trying to finish her thesis.’
Compare: ‘I was busy with the housework.’ ‘I was busy doing the housework.’
188
but
Although I enjoyed my stay in the USA, but I was still glad to come home.
Although I enjoyed my stay in the USA, I was still glad to come home.
I enjoyed my stay in the USA, but I was still glad to come home.
If the first clause begins with although or (even) though, do not begin the second clause with but
or yet.
See also SO 1
189
by
He managed to open the lid by a screwdriver.
He managed to open the lid with a screwdriver.
You do something with a tool, instrument, etc (NOT by): ‘He opened the envelope with a
chopstick.’ ‘You can’t eat spaghetti with a spoon.’
I am staying in a small town by Oxford.
I am staying in a small town near Oxford.
by = next to or very close to something: ‘I’ve been sitting by the phone all morning waiting for her
to ring.’ ‘I’ll meet you on the corner, by the bank.’ When talking about the position of towns, cities,
countries etc, use near: ‘I spent the first month in a little Village called Farchant, near GarmenPartenkirchen.’
We can gain a lot of knowledge by these books.
We can gain a lot of knowledge from these books.
You get information from a source: ‘You can learn a great deal from a good dictionary.’ ‘I
obtained their new number from directory enquiries.’
Being locked up is a punishment by itself.
Being locked up is a punishment in itself.
Money by itself is of no interest to me.
Money in itself is of no interest to me.
in itself = without anything added: ‘His offer to pay for the repairs is in itself an admission of guilt.’
See MADE, REASON 5, REPLACE, SEE 2
190
call
Last night I tried to call to my father back home in Turkey.
Last night I tried to call my father back home in Turkey.
Please call to 945 8026.
Please call 945 8026.
call/ring/telephone a person, place or number (WITHOUT to): ‘Call me tonight and we’ll make
arrangements for the morning.’ ‘If you’re sure that it’s been stolen, you’d better call the police.’
If you receive this note, please phone call me.
If you receive this note, please call/ring me.
If you receive this note, please give me a call/ring.
The verb is call/ring/phone/telephone (NOT phone call).
Phone call is a noun: ‘I need to make one or two phone calls.’
Please call me with number 0248 312689.
Please call me on 0248 312689.
call sb on a particular number (British English)
call sb at a particular number (American English)
Koreans call this room as ‘anbang’.
Koreans call this room ‘anbang’.
This process is called as nitrogen fixation.
This process is called nitrogen fixation.
call sb/sth + name (WITHOUT as): ‘People call her the Queen of Rock.’ ‘The big apples are called
Red Delicious.’
191
calm
If you prefer a calm environment, try the countryside.
If you prefer a peaceful environment, try the countryside.
Go and find somewhere calm and get some rest.
Go and find somewhere quiet and get some rest.
What you need is a calm holiday somewhere.
What you need is a quiet and relaxing holiday somewhere.
Calm is usually used to describe situations where there has recently been violence or noisy activity:
‘After yesterday’s fighting, the streets of Jerusalem are reported to be calm again this morning.’
You need calm and quiet to digest your lunch properly.
You need peace and quiet to digest your lunch properly.
Peace and quiet is a fixed phrase: ‘It’s impossible to find peace and quiet in a house full of
children.’
My best friend Nick is very calm and never gets upset.
My best friend Nick is very easygoing and never gets upset.
Calm is usually used to describe how someone behaves in a difficult situation: ‘The boat was being
tossed by the waves but we managed to stay calm.’
To describe someone who has a relaxed attitude to life, use words such as easygoing, placid, laidback (informal), patient, tolerant.
I fastened my seat belt and tried to be calm .
I fastened my seat belt and tried to stay calm.
When you are talking about someone’s behaviour in an emergency or unpleasant situation, use
keep/stay/remain calm: ‘In the event of fire, leave the building by the nearest exit and remain
calm.’
Compare: ‘For the first two days the sea was perfectly calm.’
192
calm down
He had calmed down his anger, but he was still annoyed.
He had calmed down, but he was still annoyed.
Calm down (intransitive) means ‘to become less angry, less excited, etc’: ‘Once everyone had
calmed down, the meeting continued.’
The object of calm down (transitive) is always a person: ‘The doctor gave him a tranquillizer to
calm him down.’ ‘In the end I agreed to go with her, just to calm her down.’
193
cameraman
Shotaro Akiyama is a famous Japanese cameraman.
Shotaro Akiyama is a famous Japanese photographer.
cameraman = a person who is employed by a television or film company to operate a camera:
‘The cameraman had never shot a car chase before and needed the director’s advice.’
photographer = a person who takes (or whose job is to take) photographs: ‘She is one of the
world’s leading fashion photographers.’
194
can
Can you possibly send me an application form?
Could you possibly send me an application form?
I’d be grateful if you can confirm whether you are coming.
I’d be grateful if you could confirm whether you are coming.
To make a polite request, use could: ‘Could you pass the butter, please?’
The next generation can fly to the moon for their holidays.
The next generation will be able to fly to the moon for their holidays.
Use can to talk about someone’s present ability: ‘All our children can swim.’
Use be able to to predict someone’s future ability: ‘You’ll never be able to swim if you don’t try.’
195
cancel
See COULD
The meeting has been cancelled until next Thursday.
The meeting has been postponed until next Thursday.
cancel = arrange for a planned event not to take place after all: ‘Five of their players were either ill
or injured, and so the match had to be cancelled.’
postpone = arrange for a planned event to take place at a later time or date: ‘We’ve decided to
postpone the wedding until Steve has found a job.’
196
cancer
Her husband died 10 years ago of a lung cancer.
Her husband died 10 years ago of lung cancer.
cancer (uncountable) = a type of serious disease: ‘It is generally believed that diet plays an
important role in the prevention of cancer.’
‘Skin cancer is related to prolonged exposure to sunlight.’ a cancer (countable) = an abnormal
growth in someone’s body which is caused by this disease; tumour: ‘Some small cancers may be
destroyed by the body’s defence mechanisms.’
197
capable
She is no longer capable to do her job properly.
She is no longer capable of doing her job properly.
able to do sth: ‘I hope you’ll be able to come.’
capable of doing sth: ‘She is quite capable of passing the exam, provided that she does some
work.’
198
capacity
This type of job requires special capacities.
This type of job requires special skills.
I wish to improve my speaking and listening capacities.
I wish to improve my speaking and listening skills.
capacity = the power or quality that makes someone able to do, experience, give or receive
something: ‘These children display an extraordinary capacity for learning.’ ‘Man’s capacity for
love and generosity is unlimited.’
skill = what someone needs to have learned before they can actually do a particular job or
activity: ‘Being a good manager requires a number of highly specialized skills.’ ‘This course is
designed to develop the student’s reading and writing skills.’
The atomic bomb has given man the capacity of self-destruction.
The atomic bomb has given man the capacity for self-destruction.
capacity for sth: ‘He has an enormous capacity for hard work.’
capacity to do sth: ‘The human race shows an extraordinary capacity to change with the times.’
199
capture
Her blue eyes and long blond hair captured him.
Her blue eyes and long blond hair captivated him.
capture = make someone a prisoner: ‘That day they captured twenty enemy soldiers.’ ‘The leader
of the resistance group was captured and executed.’
captivate = strongly attract and impress someone: ‘From the day she met him, she was captivated
by his charm.’
200
car
I went into the car and turned on the engine.
I got into the car and turned on the engine.
I went out of the car and waited outside the shop.
I got out of the car and waited outside the shop.
She got out from the car and apologized.
She got out of the car and apologized.
get in/into or get out of a car, taxi, etc: ‘She got in the car and drove away.’ ‘I got out of the car
to see what was happening.’
He brought me back to Cambridge with his car.
He brought me back to Cambridge in his car.
We went to the party by a friend’s car.
We went to the party in a friend’s car.
You go somewhere by car or in someone’s car (NOT with): ‘If you’d rather go by car, we can go in
mine.’
201
care
These children need a special care and attention.
These children need special care and attention.
My host family took a good care of me.
My host family took good care of me.
Care is nearly always an uncountable noun: ‘Care of the environment has become a priority in
government thinking.’ ‘Would you like me to take care of the plants while you’re away?’
The only thing they cared for was how to make money.
The only thing they cared about was how to make money.
It encourages readers to care for what they buy.
It encourages readers to care about what they buy.
Some criminals simply don’t care of being caught.
Some criminals simply don’t care about being caught.
They don’t take care about religion.
They don’t care about religion.
care for = (1) (formal) like: ‘Would you care for another drink?’ (2) = (usually adjectival or passive)
look after: ‘Don’t worry. The child is being well cared for.’
care (about) = think that something is important: ‘I don’t care (about) how much it costs.’ ‘I don’t
care about the cost.’
Take care of not catching a cold.
Take care not to catch a cold.
You’d better take care of not offending her.
You’d better take care not to offend her.
Take care of means ‘look after’: ‘Who’s going to take care of the dog while you’re away?’
When you mean ‘be careful to avoid something’, use take care not to or take care that you don’t:
‘He took great care not to let anyone know his intentions.’
Some women stay at home to take care after the children.
Some women stay at home to take care of the children.
The government must take care for the teachers.
The government must take care of the teachers.
Who will take care about the shop?
Who will take care of the shop?
take care of or look after sb/sth: ‘After his mother died, there was nobody to take care of him.’
202
career
After ten years as a taxi driver, he decided it was time to change his career.
After ten years as a taxi driver, he decided it was time to change his
job/occupation.
See Language Note at OCCUPATION
I’d like to be a doctor or something related to that career.
I’d like to be a doctor or something related to that profession.
See Language Note at OCCUPATION
203
careful
Be careful to water the African violets regularly.
Make sure (that) you water the African violets regularly.
Be careful to fix any oil leaks.
Make sure (that) you fix any oil leaks.
Use be careful when you want someone to pay special attention to something so that they do not
have an accident, make a mistake, or do something that will cause damage: ‘Be careful! You’re
about to spill your coffee.’ ‘You should be careful about what you say to her. She is easily
offended.’
To tell someone that they must not forget to do or check something, use make sure: ‘Before you
set off, make sure that you have enough petrol.’ ‘Make sure that you don’t leave the key in the
car.’
204
careless
How wonderful it would be to be young and careless again!
How wonderful it would be to be young and carefree again!
careless = paying too little attention to something: ‘If you’re careless, you’re bound to make
mistakes.’
carefree = happy because you have no worries or responsibilities: ‘Some children never know what
it means to be carefree.’
205
carry
An ambulance arrived and the man was carried to hospital.
An ambulance arrived and the man was taken to hospital.
He said he would carry me home and told me to get in the car.
He said he would take me home and told me to get in the car.
See Language Note at TAKE
206
carry out
I shall now describe how wedding ceremonies are carried out in Iran.
I shall now describe how wedding ceremonies are conducted in Iran.
conduct/perform a ceremony or ritual (NOT carry out): ‘The funeral ceremony was conducted
according to ancient traditions.’
207
case
Switzerland has very little unemployment and in this case we are very lucky.
Switzerland has very little unemployment and in this respect we are very lucky.
in this/that case = in these/those circumstances: ‘What shall I do if there are no trains?’ ‘In that
case you’ll have to go by bus.’
in this/that respect = with regard to this/that point or detail: ‘The film is full of violence and in this
respect is unsuitable for children.’
I advise you to eat something now in case there won’t be any food when we get
there.
I advise you to eat something now in case there isn’t any food when we get there.
See Language Note at WILL
In case a woman goes out to work, she shouldn’t have to do all the housework.
If a woman goes out to work, she shouldn’t have to do all the housework.
In British English in case is used only when you talk about something that is done as a precaution:
‘Let’s wait for another five minutes, just in case he shows up.’
In American English in case is sometimes used like if at the beginning of a conditional clause.
208
cash
I prefer to pay by cash.
I prefer to pay in cash.
I prefer to pay cash.
pay by cheque, pay by credit card BUT pay in cash or just pay cash: ‘If you pay (in) cash, you
might get a discount.’
The purse contained about $200 cash.
The purse contained about $200 in cash.
amount of money + in cash: ‘£550 in cash’, ‘$190 in cash
209
catch
The dialogue in this video is very difficult to catch.
The dialogue in this video is very difficult to understand.
At that time I couldn’t speak or catch English at all.
At that time I couldn’t speak or understand English at all.
Catch (= hear and/or understand) is used only in connection with what someone has just said: ‘I’m
afraid I didn’t quite catch the last point. Could you go over it again?’ ‘Did either of you manage to
catch her name?’
210
catch up
I have to catch up all the lessons I missed.
I have to catch up on all the lessons I missed.
catch up (on/with sth) = do the things that you should have done before so that your work is up to
date: ‘Why don’t you stay at home tonight and catch up on some of your homework?’
Compare: ‘Don’t get too far behind with your homework or you’ll never be able to catch up.’
New job opportunities will never catch up the rapid growth in population.
New job opportunities will never catch up with the rapid growth in population.
catch up (with sb/sth) = draw level with: ‘Let’s stop here for a few minutes so that the others can
catch up with us.’ ‘In schools up and down the country, girls have not only caught up with boys but
they’re now in the lead.’
211
cause
The cause why I want to change my job is as follows.
The reason why I want to change my job is as follows.
For this cause the journey took a long time.
For this reason the journey took a long time.
cause = an action, event, situation etc that makes something happen: The cause of the fire is still
being investigated.’ These outbreaks of violence will continue to occur until the causes have been
eliminated.’
reason = something that provides an explanation: ‘I’m sure that they must have good reasons for
wanting to live abroad.’ ‘The reason why there is only one applicant is that the job wasn’t
advertised.’
The police wanted to know the cause for the accident.
The police wanted to know the cause of the accident.
reason for sth BUT cause of sth: ‘The underlying causes of the present dispute date back to 1987.’
Note however: cause for concern/alarm/complain/hope etc: ‘The new rise in unemployment has
given the government cause for concern.’
This causes that the children look for affection elsewhere.
This causes the children to look for affection elsewhere.
cause sb to do sth (NOT cause that): ‘A week-long power failure caused the whole computer
network to shut down.’
Smoking is one of the most important causes of lung cancer.
Smoking is one of the major causes of lung cancer.
a major/chief/primary cause (NOT important)
Acid rain is caused by several reasons.
Acid rain has several causes.
Do not use reason after be caused by: ‘The autopsy showed that her death was caused by liver
failure.’
212
certain
Just suppose, for a certain reason, that there was suddenly a shortage of oil.
Just suppose, for some reason, that there was suddenly a shortage of oil.
Every creature must have a certain way of protecting itself.
Every creature must have some way of protecting itself.
He’s working in London for a certain travel company.
He’s working in London for some travel company or other.
Use certain + noun when you continue (or could continue) by giving details: ‘There are certain
advantages to living in the countryside, the most important being the fresh air.’ ‘I’m not allowed
to eat certain types of seafood, especially squid and octopus.’ Use some + noun (+ or other) when
you cannot or do not wish to give details: ‘In the end, he sold it to some second-hand car dealer.’
‘If the factory is shut down for some reason, what will happen to all the workers?’
The phrase some + noun + or other is often used in informal styles to suggest that the person or
thing is completely unknown to you and not worth thinking about: ‘Apparently, their daughter has
got engaged to some shop assistant or other.’
Under some certain circumstances, such as war, food has to be rationed.
Under certain circumstances, such as war, food has to be rationed.
Do not use a determiner (e.g. some, the, their) before certain when it means ‘particular’ (see the
note at certain 1 above): ‘Each member of the committee has certain duties to perform.’
213
certainly
All of a sudden the engine started to make a strange noise. Certainly, I stopped the
car at once to see what had happened.
All of a sudden the engine started to make a strange noise. Naturally, I stopped
the car at once to see what had happened.
Certainly is mainly used to emphasize that something is really true, really happened, etc: ‘I’m
sorry if I upset you. I certainly didn’t mean to.’ ‘The file certainly wasn’t given to me or it would be
on my desk.’
When you mean ‘as anyone would expect’, use naturally or of course: ‘It was the first time the
little boy had seen an elephant and naturally he was a little scared.’
Are you sure that you certainly don’t want to go?
Are you sure that you definitely don’t want to go?
If they certainly can’t find a job, they should be given further training.
If they definitely can’t find a job, they should be given further training.
When you mean ‘absolutely certain and without even the slightest doubt’, use definitely. This
word gives very strong emphasis and is often used in connection with intentions and future
events: ‘He definitely wants to be a vet.’ ‘Do you think that you’ll definitely be able to come?’
Certainly I think so.
I certainly think so.
The car can be repaired certainly.
The car can certainly be repaired.
Certainly, it was a pleasant surprise.
It was certainly a pleasant surprise.
It certainly was a pleasant surprise.
Certainly is usually used like a middle position adverb (see Language Note at ALWAYS): ‘She
certainly likes you.’ ‘His work has certainly improved this year.’
For extra emphasis, however, certainly may be placed before the first auxiliary verb and before be
when this is the main verb: ‘His work certainly has improved this year.’ ‘She certainly is one of the
best teachers on the staff.’
214
certificate
The other day I was given a gift certificate, but it was only worth two thousand yen.
The other day I was given a gift voucher, but it was only worth two thousand yen.
certificate = an official document that states certain facts about someone: ‘a
birth/marriage/death certificate’, ‘a certificate of health’
voucher = a kind of ticket that can be used instead of money: ‘a gift/luncheon/travel voucher’.
215
chair
During the flight she sat on the chair behind me.
During the flight she sat in the seat behind me.
seat = a place to sit, as found in a cinema, train, bus etc: ‘To be on the safe side, you’d better
reserve a seat.’
chair = a movable seat for one person: ‘Before the children go home, they have to put all the
chairs on top of the desks.’
216
chance
The higher your qualifications, the better your chances to find a job.
The higher your qualifications, the better your chances of finding a job.
chances of doing sth (= degree of probability): ‘What are the chances of finding them alive?’
217
change
We can reduce the unemployment rate with a change of the economy.
We can reduce the unemployment rate with a change in the economy.
I’m disappointed by all the changes of London.
I’m disappointed by all the changes in London.
Use change of when you mean that someone or something has been replaced: ‘What the country
needs is a change of government.’ (= a completely new government)
When you mean that someone or something is now different in some way, use change in: ‘The
Prime Minister has made several changes in the government.’
I took the camera back to the shop and changed it with another one.
I took the camera back to the shop and changed it for another one.
change/exchange sth for sth: ‘I’d like to change this shirt for a smaller size.’
218
character
She has that rare character - the ability to listen to people.
She has that rare characteristic - the ability to listen to people.
However, the Japanese also have a lot of good characters.
However, the Japanese also have a lot of good points.
When you mean ‘a feature of someone’s character’, use characteristic or quality: ‘All great
leaders share certain mean characteristics.’ ‘What qualities do you need to be a good parent?’ In
contrast with qualities that you do not like, you can also talk about someone’s good points.
219
cheap
The wages in Taiwan are very cheap.
The wages in Taiwan are very low.
The monthly payments were cheaper than I’d expected.
The monthly payments were lower/less than I’d expected.
When you talk about costs, payments, rents, wages, salaries, incomes, expenses, taxes, fees etc,
use low/high (NOT cheap/expensive): ‘During the recession, prices stayed low.’ ‘People on low
incomes have been severely hit.’ ‘Rents in Helsinki are very high compared to the rest of Finland.’
Note that price is sometimes used with cheap/expensive, but not in formal styles.
The train fare is very cheap .
The train fare is very reasonable.
It’s difficult to find a cheap flat in Tokyo .
It’s difficult to find an affordable flat in Tokyo.
See Language Note at KILL
220
checking
Once inside the airport, I made my way to the checking.
Once inside the airport, I made my way to the check-in.
check-in = the place at an airport (or hotel) where you check in: ‘There’s bound to be a long queue
at the check-in.’ ‘The girl at the check-in desk asked if we had a reservation.’
check in = show your ticket, passport and luggage at a counter in an airport and receive a
boarding card: ‘Once you’ve checked in, you have to go through customs.’
221
cheque
I am enclosing a cheque of £49.
I am enclosing a cheque for £49.
He gave me a cheque £5.
He gave me a cheque for £5.
a cheque for an amount of money: ‘He wrote me a cheque for $50.’
222
children
Some couples prefer NOT to make children.
Some couples prefer not to have children.
have children (NOT make): ‘We’d like to settle down and have children while we’re still young.’
223
choice
In my new job I have to make a lot of important choices.
In my new job I have to make a lot of important decisions.
Please will you let us know your choice by the end of the month.
Please will you let us know your decision by the end of the month.
When you pick the person/thing that you want (from a range of possibilities), you make a choice:
‘Her parents are not happy about her choice of husband.’ ‘Oxford was my first choice, but I didn’t
get the grades.’
When you make a judgment about something, especially after thinking carefully about it, you
make a decision: ‘Although the job offer is attractive, I’d like more time to make a decision.’ ‘My
decision to leave school at 15 was the biggest mistake I ever made.’
224
choose
If you choose to see a film, we can go to the cinema instead.
If you prefer to see a film, we can go to the cinema instead.
I choose the first story because it’s more exciting.
I prefer the first story because it’s more exciting.
prefer = like something more than something else: ‘Which do you prefer, black coffee or white
coffee?’ ‘Peter prefers classical music to rock.’ ‘I’d prefer to stay here, if you don’t mind.’
There are over forty different courses to choose between.
There are over forty different courses to choose from.
There is also a library where you can choose among a wide range of books.
There is also a library where you can choose from a wide range of books.
choose between two (or a few) possibilities: ‘You have to choose between a beginner’s course and
a more advanced course.’ ‘If I had to choose between staying here and living abroad, I’d stay
here.’
choose from a large number of possibilities: ‘When it comes to wallpaper, there are hundreds of
different patterns to choose from.’
Hilde chose for sources of energy as her topic.
Hilde chose sources of energy as her topic.
choose sb/sth (WITHOUT for): ‘The roses were too expensive so I chose the daffodils.’ ‘The team
chose Alan as their captain.’
Compare: ‘Tests have shown that girls opt for languages whereas boys choose science or maths.’
225
church
Not so long ago nearly everybody used to go to the church.
Not so long ago nearly everybody used to go to church.
See Note at SCHOOL 1
226
cinema
We went to cinema to see ‘Who framed Roger Rabbit?’
We went to the cinema to see ‘Who framed Roger Rabbit?’
go to the cinema (WITH the): ‘Before the baby was born, we used to go to the cinema about once
a week.’ See also SCHOOL 1
227
circulate
The story circulates around his career in the army.
The story revolves around his career in the army.
circulate = (of news, stories, rumours etc) spread by being passed from one person to another:
‘One of the rumours circulating at the moment is that the company is about to go bankrupt.’
revolve around = (of a novel, film, story etc) be about: ‘His latest film revolves around the
difficulties of being a single parent.’
228
circumstance
I believe that in this circumstance students should be allowed to have a part-time job.
I believe that in these circumstances students should be allowed to have a parttime job.
Circumstances is nearly always used as a plural noun (WITH s): ‘The police are investigating the circumstances surrounding his death.’ ‘Under normal circumstances, I would never have left my passport with a stranger.’
229
city centre
Most people work in city centre.
Most people work in the city centre.
the city centre (WITH the): ‘It’s only five minutes by bus to the city centre.’
230
civilization
Each country has its own civilization and ideology.
Each country has its own culture and ideology.
American civilization is very different from that of Japan.
American culture is very different from that of Japan.
civilization = (a society or group of societies having) a way of life that is considered to be
advanced in terms of culture and social organization: ‘The remote mountain villages are still
untouched by modern civilization.’ ‘The film examines the ancient civilizations of Greece and
Rome, and their contributions to Western society.’
culture = art, music, literature, etc especially that which is produced by a particular society or
group of societies: ‘Visitors to Singapore discover a happy marriage of western and oriental
cultures.’ ‘The Samba is an important part of Brazilian culture.’
231
claim
The public are claiming stricter laws.
The public are demanding stricter laws.
claim = ask to be given something that belongs to you or that you think you are entitled to:
‘People on a low income are able to claim legal aid.’
demand = ask strongly for something: ‘The laboratory was surrounded by demonstrators
demanding an end to animal experiments.’
Note also clamour for = repeatedly ask for something in a noisy or angry way: ‘In response to the
increase in domestic violence, people are clamouring for stricter laws that will help to protect
wives and children.’
At the end of World War 11 there was a claim for a ‘United Europe’.
At the end of World War 11there was a demand/clamour for a ‘United Europe’.
See Note at CLAIM 1
232
classic
I prefer classic music to pop.
I prefer classical music to pop.
classic = being among the best or most typical of its class; serving as a standard or model: ‘The
painting is a classic example of sixteenth" century Venetian art.’
classical music = the music of Mozart, Beethoven, etc
love the sound of a classic guitar.
I love the sound of a classical guitar.
a classical guitar = a guitar that is used to play classical music
233
clean
The local residents would like to clean the neighbourhood.
The local residents would like to clean up the neighbourhood.
clean up = (1) clean a place, especially by taking away all the things which make it look dirty,
untidy or unattractive: ‘You can play in your bedroom as long as you promise to clean it up
afterwards.’ (2) make an area or organization a better place for people to live or work in,
especially by removing criminals, corrupt officials, etc: ‘It’s time someone cleaned up this city; we
have one of the highest crime rates in the country.’
234
clear
I should like to make clear that the accommodation is far from luxurious.
I should like to make it clear that the accommodation is far from luxurious.
make it clear + that-clause (WITH it): ‘She made it quite clear (to him) that she wasn’t interested
in getting married.’
235
climate
While I was driving to the airport, the climate was still wet and foggy.
While I was driving to the airport, the weather was still wet and foggy.
Before going off in the boat, you should check the climate conditions.
Before going off in the boat, you should check the weather conditions.
climate = the typical weather conditions that exist in a country or region; the place where these
weather conditions exist: ‘Northern Europe has a mild climate and a high rainfall.’ ‘These flowers
will not grow in cold climates.’
236
close
They closed the man in a room until the police came.
They locked the man in a room until the police came.
lock/shut sb in a room, house, etc (NOT close): ‘He was picked up by the police and locked in a cell
for the night.’
Compare: ‘She closed the door and then locked it so he couldn’t escape.’
I always close the television when there is a storm.
I always turn/switch the television off when there is a storm.
See Note at OPEN 1
237
cloth
I bought some cheap cloth to make some curtains.
I bought some cheap material to make some curtains.
Cloth (uncountable) usually refers to material made of cotton, wool etc that is used for making
clothes: ‘The tailor took my measurements and then showed me several rolls of cloth.’
Material (and fabric) have a more general meaning and may be used in connection with clothes,
curtains, sheets, etc: ‘The cushion covers and the curtains were made from the same material.’
‘They specialize in the manufacture of elasticated fabric.’
He likes fast cars and expensive cloths.
He likes fast cars and expensive clothes.
None of the cloth shops had any pink socks.
None of the clothes shops had any pink socks.
A cloth (pronounced /klɒθ/ ) is a piece of material made of cotton, wool, etc, usually used for
cleaning or drying something: ‘I’m afraid I’ve spilled some milk. Have you got a cloth?’ ‘I need a
new face cloth.’
Clothes (pronounced /kləʊðz/ ) are the things people wear, such as trousers, sweaters, etc: ‘I
spend half my salary on clothes.’
238
clothes
The dancers were dressed in their national clothes.
The dancers were dressed in their national costume.
costume = (1) (countable) a set of clothes worn during a performance by an actor, clown, etc: ‘She
used to work for a theatre company, designing and making costumes.’ (2) (uncountable) a set of
clothes that are typical of a particular country or historical period: ‘The castle guides were dressed
up in Elizabethan costume.’ ‘A group of Hungarian folk dancers came on stage, all wearing
national costume.’
Don’t go out and buy a special clothes.
Don’t go out and buy any special clothes.
Clothes is a plural noun: ‘I need some new clothes.’ (NOT ‘a new clothes’)
239
clothing
As soon as I arrived, I unpacked my clothing.
As soon as I arrived, I unpacked my clothes.
He had grown so much that his clothing didn’t fit him.
He had grown so much that his clothes didn’t fit him.
Use clothing when you are thinking about clothes in general: The population is in desperate need
of foreign aid - especially food, medicine and clothing.’ ‘She works in the clothing industry.’
To refer to the things that you wear, use clothes: ‘You’d better take off those wet clothes or you’ll
catch a cold.’
Those who work with pesticides are given protective clothings.
Those who work with pesticides are given protective clothing.
Clothing is an uncountable noun: The population is in desperate need of foreign aid, especially
food, medicine and clothing.’
240
collaboration
The police were grateful to the public for their collaboration.
The police were grateful to the public for their co-operation.
Collaboration comes from the verb collaborate (= work in partnership with someone on the same
task, especially one of a scientific, artistic or industrial nature): ‘He was one of the scientists who
had collaborated with Oppenheimer to produce the first atomic bomb.’
Co-operation comes from the verb co-operate (= be willing to help someone to achieve
something; be helpful): ‘Faced with the threat of a full-scale military invasion, the general had no
choice but to co-operate.’
241
college
By going to the college or university, you become more mature.
By going to college or university, you become more mature.
See Note at SCHOOL 1
242
colour
The belt has the same colour as the coat.
The belt is the same colour as the coat.
When you describe or enquire about the colour of something, use be (NOT have): ‘What colour
was the dress she was wearing?’
I bought a blue colour shirt and a pair of socks.
I bought a blue shirt and a pair of socks.
I have never liked black colour.
I have never liked black.
The noun colour is not usually used with. the name of a colour (red, green, blue etc). Colour is
used only when the colour of something is not pure or is difficult to describe exactly: ‘It’s an
unusual bluish-grey colour’. See Note at COLOURED 1 .
Note however that the name of a colour can be used with in colour: ‘It’s brown in colour with
white buttons down the front.’
The purse is made of leather and is dark brown colour.
The purse is made of leather and is a dark brown colour.
When describing a colour that is not pure, use a/an: The dress is a reddish-green colour.’
My wallet colour is black.
The colour of my wallet is black.
the colour of sth: Do you remember the colour of their kitchen?’
At Hari Raya we hang colour lights around the house.
At Hari Raya we hang coloured lights around the house.
colour = showing people and things in their natural colours: ‘a colour television’, ‘a colour
photograph’
coloured = having one or more colours (not white or black), especially in order to look attractive:
‘Do you want plain envelopes or coloured ones?’ ‘Each book is full of brightly-coloured full-page
illustrations.’
243
coloured
The cardigan is pink-coloured and is made of wool.
The cardigan is pink and is made of wool.
When you describe the colour of something, you usually just say that it is red, blue, green etc
(WITHOUT -coloured): ‘Her new dress is pale blue with red buttons down the front.’
Adjectives ending with -coloured are quite rare. They are mainly used when the colour of
something is difficult to describe exactly (‘pink coloured’ = not exactly pink) and usually come
before the noun: ‘a cream-coloured dressing gown’ See Note at COLOUR 2
He showed me the coloured photographs he had taken.
He showed me the colour photographs he had taken.
See Note at COLOUR 5
244
come
He was afraid of his father and didn’t want to come back home.
He was afraid of his father and didn’t want to go back home.
Come is used for movement towards the place where the speaker is, was, or intends to be, or
towards the person being talked about: ‘Come and look at this.’ ‘Why didn’t he come to see me?’
‘He was just about to go out when his wife came into the office in tears.’
Go is used for movement in other directions: ‘I wish those noisy children would go away.’ ‘Let’s go
to London for a few days.’
The students who are coming from Japan are hard-working.
The students who come from Japan are hard-working.
When you mention someone’s country or where something was made or grown, use the present
simple tense. Compare: ‘She comes from Germany.’ (= she was born in Germany) ‘She is coming
from Germany.’ (= she is travelling from Germany)
245
common
I think that people in common have good sides and sides.
I think that people in general have good sides and bad sides.
If you have the same background, interests, taste etc as someone, the two of you have a lot in
common: ‘I’m sure the marriage won’t last. They’ve got nothing in common.’
When you mean that something happens or is true ‘in most situations’, use in general: ‘In general,
parents about their children’s health than about their own.’ ‘Students In general have very little
money to spend on luxuries.’
There are so many things in common between us.
We have so many things in common.
Two or more people have (got) something in common: ‘We’ve moved in the same circles over the
last ten years and so we have a great deal in common.’
In Spain it is common that people turn up at your house without warning.
In Spain it is common for people to turn up at your house without warning.
it is common +for sb to do sth (NOT that): ‘IPS quite common for new fathers to feel jealous for
the first few weeks.’
246
company
For those who live by themselves, television provides a good company.
For those who live by themselves, television provides good company.
When company means ‘someone or something that stops you from feeling lonely or bored;
companionship’, it is uncountable: ‘Whenever he goes off on a long trip, he takes his radio with
him for company.’
247
compare
The teachers will be able to visit our schools and compare our teaching methods to their own.
The teachers will be able to visit our schools and compare our teaching methods with their own.
compare to = describe (someone or something) as being similar to (someone or something else); liken: ‘She compared the child to a noisy monkey.’ ; compare with = examine two or more people/things/ideas etc to discover similarities and/or differences: ‘Having compared the new dictionary with the old one, she found the new one more helpful.’
248
complain
It is childish to complain against rules.
It is childish to complain about rules.
They are always complaining for something.
They are always complaining about something.
complain about sth: ‘Residents living near the airport have a lot to complain about.’
249
complaint
There have been several complaints for the service in the canteen.
There have been several complaints about the service in the canteen.
(make) a complaint about sth (NOT for): ‘If you have complaints about the service, you should
write to the manager.’
250
completely
Then the lights went out and we were completely scared.
Then the lights went out and we were very scared.
See Note at VERY 2
251
composed
The committee is composed by six teachers and a student representative.
The committee is composed of six teachers and a student representative.
be composed of (NOT by): The human body is composed of billions of tiny cells.’
252
comprehension
There is not enough comprehension between our two countries.
There is not enough understanding between our two countries.
Comprehension refers to the ability to understand the meaning of something, especially
something that is spoken or written: ‘I’d like to develop my vocabulary and improve my listening
comprehension.’
When you mean ‘an attitude of sympathy’, use understanding: ‘When it comes to the employees’
personal problems, the management shows a complete lack of understanding.’
253
comprehensive
The teachers are very kind and comprehensive.
The teachers are very kind and understanding.
comprehensive = including everything or almost everything: ‘The witness provided a
comprehensive account of the accident.’
understanding = feeling sympathy for someone: ‘As people grow older, they tend to be a bit more
understanding and easier to live with.’
254
comprise
The former Soviet Union comprised of fifteen union republics.
The former Soviet Union comprised fifteen union republics.
See Language Note at INCLUDE
255
concentrate
I am concentrated on both speaking and writing.
I am concentrating on both speaking and writing.
A bus driver has to be concentrated and should not speak to the passengers.
A bus driver has to concentrate and should not speak to the passengers.
concentrate (on sth) NOT be concentrated: ‘How can children concentrate on their homework
when they have one eye on the television?’
Compare: ‘The juice is then concentrated by a process of evaporation.’
The teaching tends to concentrate in grammar.
The teaching tends to concentrate on grammar.
I try to concentrate in one subject at a time.
I try to concentrate on one subject at a time.
concentrate on sth (NOT in): ‘She gave up teaching so that s b could concentrate on research.’
I couldn’t concentrate myself as there was someone talking.
I couldn’t concentrate as there was someone talking.
See Language Note at MYSELF
256
concern
As far as I concern, the cost of the repair is not my responsibility.
As far as I’m concerned, the cost of the repair is not my responsibility.
as far as sb/sth is concerned: ‘As far as my parents are concerned, I’m free to come whenever I
like.’ ‘As far as the law is concerned, you are innocent until proven guilty.’ ‘As far as your grammar
is concerned, you seem to be having a problem with tenses.’
You should concern more about your health.
You should be more concerned about your health.
There are far more serious things to concern about.
There are far more serious things to be concerned about.
be concerned about sth (= be worried or anxious): The government is becoming increasingly
concerned about the rising level of unemployment.’ ‘The manager is naturally very concerned
about the recent spate of injuries.’
The first chapter is concerned about the disposal of nuclear waste.
The first chapter is concerned with the disposal of nuclear waste.
The first chapter concerns the disposal of nuclear waste.
be concerned with sth OR concern sth = (of a book, film, essay etc) be about a particular subject:
‘The article is concerned with recent developments in primary education.’
Some dentists are more concerned in earning money than doing a good job.
Some dentists are more concerned with earning money than doing a good job.
be concerned with (doing) sth = be interested in: ‘We should be more concerned with reeducating criminals than punishing them.’
257
concerning
Concerning your accommodation, there are several possibilities.
With regard to your accommodation, there are several possibilities.
To introduce a new topic, use with regard to, regarding, as regards, as far as ... is concerned
(NOT concerning): ‘As far as food is concerned, the college has its own canteen.’
Compare: ‘He was then asked several questions concerning his banking activities.’ ‘We got into an
interesting discussion concerning the need for censorship.’
258
conclusion
As a conclusion, I’d like to say that everyone should be able to work if they want to.
In conclusion, I’d like to say that everyone should be able to work if they want to.
To come to the conclusion, I would like to say that everyone should read the book.
To conclude, I would like to say that everyone should read the book.
To introduce a concluding statement, use in conclusion; ‘by way of conclusion, or to conclude: ‘By
way of conclusion, I’d just like to add that the answers to the questions I have raised would still
appear to be a long way off .’
259
condition
You should try to keep the car in a good condition.
You should try to keep the car in good condition.
in good/excellent/perfect/bad/terrible … condition (WITHOUT a/an) ‘Most of the CDs were still
is the car in?’
They are forced to live in a terrible condition.
They are forced to live in terrible conditions.
When you describe the situation in which someone lives or works, use conditions: ‘Latest reports
from the capital suggest that the conditions there are getting worse.’ ‘How do they manage to
survive in such dreadful conditions?’
How are you? I hope you’re in good condition.
How are you? I hope you’re keeping fit and well.
in good condition/shape = physically fit and strong because you do exercises: ‘Most of the team
had kept themselves in good condition during the summer months.’
To enquire about or refer to someone’s general state of health, use well or fit and well: ‘Sarah has
a bit of a cold but apart from that we’re all well and looking forward to the summer holiday.’
260
confidence
She has no confidence for what the future has to offer.
She has no confidence in what the future has to offer.
confidence in sb/sth: ‘The trouble is she lacks confidence in her own ability.’ ‘It seems that
investors have lost confidence in the major stock markets.’
261
confident
I feel quite confident with my English.
I feel quite confident about my English.
confident about sth: ‘The more familiar you are with the machine, the more confident you will be
about using it.’
I began to feel more confident of myself.
I began to feel more self-confident.
If you have confidence in your own abilities, you feel self-confident: ‘Even as a child he was
surprisingly self-confident and didn’t mind being left with strangers.’
262
confirm
Could you please confirm me whether you have received my order.
Could you please confirm whether you have received my order.
confirm + direct object (WITHOUT me, us, them etc): ‘I am pleased to confirm that your
application has been approved.’
263
confront
Almost every day we confront with some new environmental problem.
Almost every day we confront some new environmental problem.
Almost every day we are confronted with some new environmental problem.
confront sb/sth (WITHOUT with): ‘Sooner or later the management will have to confront these
Issues.’
confront sb with sth: ‘She continued to delay the charge until the prosecution finally confronted
her with the evidence.’
be confronted with/by sth: ‘She continued to deny the charge until she was finally confronted
with the evidence.’
264
congratulate
First of all I’d like to congratulate you both for your wedding.
First of all I’d like to congratulate you both on your wedding.
congratulate sb on (doing) sth: ‘The President was among the first to congratulate the crew on
the success of their mission.’ ‘On behalf of the school, I’d like to congratulate the first eleven on
getting through to the final.’
265
congratulation
Congratulations! You must be feeling very proud.
Congratulations! You must be feeling very proud.
Congratulations is a plural noun: ‘Many congratulations to you both. I’m sure you’ll be very happy
together.’ ‘Give them our congratulations and say that we’ll be getting in touch soon.’
Congratulations for your splendid examination results!
Congratulations on your splendid examination results!
congratulations on (doing) sth (NOT for): ‘Congratulations on your promotion. You certainly
deserve it.’
266
conscious
People today are more conscious about the importance of health care.
People today are more conscious of the importance of health care.
be conscious of sth: ‘I was very conscious of the fact that my every move was being watched.’
267
consider
We’re considering to visit Switzerland next year.
We’re considering visiting Switzerland next year.
consider doing sth (= think about something that you might do in the future): ‘To save money, we
even considered repairing the roof ourselves.’
268
consist of
The house was consisting of three bedrooms, a kitchen, and a bathroom.
The house consisted of three bedrooms, a kitchen, and a bathroom.
See Language Note at INCLUDE
The group was consisted of ten people.
The group consisted of ten people.
An extended family is consisted of at least two generations.
An extended family consists of at least two generations.
See Language Note at INCLUDE
The school consists on four large buildings.
The school consists of four large buildings.
consist of (NOT on): ‘Spain consists of 51 different provinces.’
269
constantly
He constantly got into trouble.
He was constantly getting into trouble.
When constantly means ‘again and %gain’, the verb is usually a progressive form: ‘The old
computer was constantly breaking down.’
270
contact
You can contact with me any evening after six.
You can contact me any evening after six.
contact sb (WITHOUT with): ‘Unless we have an address or phone number, we can’t contact
them.’
Compare: ‘Mrs Lewis phoned and would like you to get in touch with her.’
271
contain
The wallet was containing about $25.
The wallet contained about $25.
See Language Note opposite.
272
content
The content of the latest peace talks is still a secret.
The contents of the latest peace talks are still a secret.
The cover page tells you about the magazine’s content.
The cover page tells you about the magazine’s contents.
content (WITHOUT s) = the (interesting) facts, ideas or opinions expressed in a book, film, essay,
speech etc: ‘His letters tend to have very little content.’
contents (WITH s) = (1) all the (interesting and uninteresting) things that are inside something:
The customs officer opened my suitcase and examined the contents.’ (2) all the things that are
written or talked about in a book, report, letter, discussion etc: ‘The contents of the diary are
strictly confidential.’, (3) a list at the front of a book, report, thesis, etc, saying what each chapter
or section is about: ‘If you want to know which chapters to read, just look at the contents.’
273
contents
I didn’t find the contents of the novel very interesting.
I didn’t find the content of the novel very interesting.
See Note at CONTENT
274
continual
The canals join to form one continual waterway.
The canals join to form one continuous waterway.
A line of cars stretched continually down the motorway.
A line of cars stretched continuously down the motorway.
continual = happening repeatedly over a long period of time, especially in a way that you find
annoying: ‘That telephone has been ringing continually.’
continuous = without any break or interruption: ‘Gas central heating provides a continuous supply
of hot water.’
275
continuous
I grew tired of his continuous moaning.
I grew tired of his continual moaning.
The meeting was continuously interrupted.
The meeting was continually interrupted.
See Note at CONTINUAL
276
contrary
It is impossible to tell whether a man is married or NOT. On the contrary, women usually have ‘Mrs’ or ‘Miss’ before their name.
It is impossible to tell whether a man is married or not. On the other hand, women usually have ‘Mrs’ or ‘Miss’ before their name.
I’ve never been able to cook. My sister on the contrary can bake wonderful biscuits and cakes.
I’ve never been able to cook. My sister on the other hand can bake wonderful biscuits and cakes.
Use on the contrary to show that you strongly disagree with a previous statement and believe
that the opposite is true: ‘Your parents didn’t want you to go abroad, did they?’ ‘On the contrary, they were all for it.’ To introduce a statement that is in sharp contrast with a previous statement, use on the other hand: ‘These new XJlOO computers are amazingly fast. On the other hand, they’re very expensive.’
277
contribute
Oxfam and Save the Children have contributed a lot of money for the relief work.
Oxfam and Save the Children have contributed a lot of money to the relief work.
When I return home, I hope to contribute my country’s economic development.
When I return home, I hope to contribute to my country’s economic
development.
contribute (money or some other form of assistance) to sth: ‘In recent years a number of major
corporations have contributed large sums of money to the President’s campaign funds.’
278
control
I was surprised that nobody wanted to control my luggage.
I was surprised that nobody wanted to inspect my luggage.
After controlling his fingerprints, the police arrested him.
After inspecting his fingerprints, the police arrested him.
At this stage in the process, every mould is controlled again.
At this stage in the process, every mould is inspected again.
control = make people or machines do what you want them to do: ‘Who will control the aircraft if
the pilot has a heart attack?’ ‘The police were unable to control the crowd.’
Inspect =carefully check or examine something: The building is regularly inspected by fire-safety
officers.’ ‘I got out of the car to inspect the damage.’
These people want to control over our lives.
These people want to control our lives.
These people want control over our lives.
control sth (verb) WITHOUT of/over: ‘It’s usually the editor who controls what goes into a
newspaper.’ The security forces are no longer able to control the situation.’
control of/over sth (noun): ‘It’s usually the editor who has control over what goes Into a
newspaper.’ ‘The security forces have lost control of the situation.’
My boat had lost control.
My boat had gone out of control.
There was a loud bang and my car became out of control.
There was a loud bang and my car went out of control.
The ferry was not under control and collided with a sampan.
The ferry was out of control and collided with a sampan.
People lose control of vehicles, machines etc: ‘The pilot lost control of the aircraft and it
plummeted to the ground.’
Vehicles and machines are/go out of control: ‘The aircraft went out of control and plummeted to
the ground.’
I had lost my control and crashed into a tree.
I had lost control and crashed into a tree.
He lost the control of the car and hit a wall.
He lost control of the car and hit a wall.
lose control (of sth), WITHOUT the, his, my, etc: ‘In 1993 Roseberg lost control of the company
after a surprise takeover bid.’
279
convince
We all tried to convince her to sing.
We all tried to persuade her to sing.
convince = make someone feel completely certain that something is true: ‘Somehow the party will
have to convince the voters that it is capable of governing the country.’ ‘She failed to convince the
jury of her innocence.’
persuade = make someone agree to do something (or believe that something is true): ‘Her parents
have persuaded her to stop seeing him.’
‘Despite our efforts to persuade them, they still haven’t signed the contract.’
280
cooker
The cooker puts too much salt in the food.
The coo/chef puts too much salt in the food.
cooker (AmE stove) = a piece of equipment that you use for cooking food: ‘I’ve never used a gas
cooker before.’
cook = a person who cooks: ‘My sister is a superb cook.’
chef = a cook who works in a restaurant: ‘Jean-Paul is training to be a chef.’
281
corner
I have written my address on the top right-hand corner.
I have written my address in the top right-hand corner.
I’d rather sit on the corner, near the door.
I’d rather sit in the corner, near the door.
in the corner of an area or room (NOT on or at): ‘I suggest that we put the piano in the comer
where it won’t get in the way.’
Compare: ‘The bank is on the corner, next to the launderette.’ ‘I’II meet you at the comer in half
an hour.’
282
cost
That shop is always empty because the costs are too high.
That shop is always empty because the prices are too high.
See Language Note at PRICE
I’ll be happy to pay the costs of the postage.
I’II be happy to pay the cost of the postage.
See Language Note at PRICE
They agreed to repair the damage free of cost. /" They agreed to repair the damage free of charge.
See Language Note at PRICE
In London the cost of life is very high.
In London the cost of living is very high.
The costs of living are always higher in city areas.
The cost of living is always higher in city areas.
See Language Note at PRICE
283
could
As I’ve already mentioned, I could learn a great deal during the two years I spent in
England.
As I’ve already mentioned, I was able to learn a great deal during the two years I
spent in England.
By reading quickly, I could finish the book before the library closed.
By reading quickly, I managed to finish the book before the library closed.
When talking about a skill or general ability in the past, use could or be able to: ‘By the time she
was four, she could/was able to swim the whole length of the pool.’
When talking about a single event in the past, we usually use be able to or manage (NOT could):
‘Luckily, we managed to get there before the shops closed.’ ‘Were you able to start the car?’
Note however that could is used in negative contexts and before verbs such as see, hear, smell
etc: ‘We looked everywhere for the cassette, but we couldn’t find it.’ ‘Couldn’t you start the car?’
‘From where I was standing, I could hear everything they said.’ See also ABLE 2
284
countryside
Some of us did our teaching practice in the countryside.
Some of us did our teaching practice in rural areas.
Use countryside when you are thinking about the beauty or lifestyle of this type of area: ‘We have
to act now to save the countryside for future generations.’ ‘We enjoy walking in the countryside
around Bristol.’
To refer to areas that do not have cities or towns, use rural/country areas: ‘Housing tends to be
more affordable in rural areas.’
285
course
I’m taking an intermediate course of English.
I’m taking an intermediate course in English.
a course in/on sth (NOT of): I’ve been attending an evening course in a course in/on sth (NOT of):
‘I’ve been attending an evening course in business studies.’ ‘I’m interested in doing a
correspondence course in English and Maths.’ ‘There is also a two-day course on new technology
for teachers.’
The boys and girls in my English course come from all over the world.
The boys and girls on my English course come from all over the world.
In British English you say that someone is on a course: ‘some of the people on the course came to
a few classes and then dropped out.’
Note that in a course is used in American English.
We’ll probably go to the cinema or to a discotheque. Of course, since Fiona is my
guest, I’ll let her decide.
We’ll probably go to the cinema or to a discotheque. Naturally, since Fiona is my
guest; I’ll let her decide.
The construction of a new motorway is totally unnecessary and of course the local
residents are completely against the idea.
The construction of a new motorway is totally unnecessary and, as one would
expect, the local residents are completely against the idea.
Of course is generally over-used. Common words and phrases that may be used as alternatives
include: naturally, obviously, clearly, certainly, evidently, predictably, as you/one would expect,
as is to be expected, as you know, it is clear/obvious that.
286
crash
The train couldn’t stop in time and crashed with the truck.
The train couldn’t stop in time and crashed into the truck.
I lost control of the car and crashed a palm tree.
I lost control of the car and crashed into a palm tree.
crash into sth: ‘The aircraft had crashed into the mountainside, leaving no survivors.’
287
crime
We need to understand why people do these crimes.
We need to understand why people commit these crimes.
Somehow we must stop people from making these crimes.
Somehow we must stop people from committing these crimes.
commit a crime (NOT do, make, perform): ‘Women commit far fewer crimes than men.’
All the prisoners had committed heavy crimes.
All the prisoners had committed serious crimes.
a serious crime (NOT heavy): ‘The public are alarmed by the increase in serious crimes.’
288
criminal
The criminal rate among juveniles is still increasing.
The crime rate among juveniles is still increasing.
What makes them choose a criminal life?
What makes them choose a life of crime?
‘criminal activity’, ‘a criminal offence’, ‘a criminal record’, ‘criminal law’, BUT ‘crime prevention’,
‘the crime rate’, ‘crime statistics’, ‘a life of crime’
289
criteria
These decisions should not be based on purely financial criterias.
These decisions should not be based on purely financial criteria.
Criteria is the plural of criterion: The company’s sole criterion of , success is high sales.’ ‘These
new criteria make it easier to get a visa.’
290
critic
The entertainment page usually contains one or two critics on films being shown in local cinemas.
The entertainment page usually contains one or two reviews of films being shown in local cinemas.
critic = a person who writes reviews of new books, films etc: ‘For five years she was theatre critic for the New Yorker.’ ; review = a short article in a newspaper or magazine which describes the good and bad qualities of a new book, film, play etc: ‘According to the reviews, the film is definitely worth seeing.’ ; Compare critique = an article, book, speech etc which carefully explains the weaknesses of a theory, policy, philosophy etc: ‘The speech was a devastating critique of Reagan’s economic policy.’
291
critical
The article is highly critical on the government’s refugee policy.
The article is highly critical of the government’s refugee policy.
critical of sth: ‘Miller was critical of the way in which the company conducted its business.’
292
criticism
The writer who did that criticism was unaware of the facts.
The writer who made that criticism was unaware of the facts.
make a criticism (of sth): ‘The committee has made four specific criticisms of the government’s
transport policy.’
My criticism on this type of journalism is that it is totally irresponsible.
My criticism of this type of journalism is that it is totally irresponsible.
criticism of sth: The most common criticism of the magazine is that it is poorly illustrated.’
293
cry
The children got very excited and began to cry.
The children got very excited and began to scream.
cry =shout something: Help!" she cried.’
cry out = make a sudden loud noise when you are frightened, shocked, hurt, etc: ‘When they tried
to move him, he cried out in pain.’
scream = make a loud, high, continuous noise, especially when you are very frightened, very
excited or in great pain: ‘One of the firemen thought he heard someone screaming inside the
building.’ ‘The fans didn’t stop screaming until the group had left the stage.’
Even when she is angry, she never cries.
Even when she is angry, she never shouts.
shout = speak in a very loud voice, especially because you want someone to hear you or because
you are angry: ‘There’s no need to shout. I’m not deaf, you know.’ ‘The demonstrators marched
through the streets shouting: No more war! No more war!’
When he reached the point in his story when his friends were arrested and
tortured, he began to cry.
When he reached the point in his story when his friends were arrested and
tortured, he began to weep.
cry = the opposite of laugh: ‘As the child was running towards me, she fell over and began to cry.’
‘Babies always cry when they’re hungry.’
weep = cry quietly, usually because of great sadness. This word is mainly used in literary styles:
‘He knelt down b small grave and wept.’
I didn’t know whether to cry or laugh.
I didn’t know whether to laugh or cry.
Laugh or cry is a fixed phrase: ‘His jokes are so awful that you don’t know whether to laugh or
cry.’
294
culture
The year in Boston taught me a lot about the American culture.
The year in Boston taught me a lot about American culture.
American culture, British culture, etc (WITHOUT the): ‘The lecture this afternoon is on the history
of French culture and institutions.’
295
cure
The wound took several weeks to cure.
The wound took several weeks to heal.
Cuts, wounds, injuries, etc heal: ‘Cuts generally take longer to heal in humid climates.’
I was the doctor who cured your head injury.
I was the doctor who treated your head injury.
Doctors and nurses treat an injury, disease, sick person, etc: ‘Serious burns must be treated as
soon as possible.’ ‘The usual way of treating malaria is to give the patient large doses of quinine.’
‘Some hospitals refuse to treat people who don’t have medical insurance.’
Those who are seriously ill take a long time to cure.
Those who are seriously ill take a long time to recover.
When people who have been ill or injured return to their normal state of health, they recover or
get better: ‘Some of the flood victims are still recovering in hospital.’ ‘It takes a long time to
recover from glandular fever.’ ‘Within a month of the heart attack, he had fully recovered.’
As yet, nobody has found a cure to AIDS or cancer.
As yet, nobody has found a cure for AlDS or cancer.
The best cure of a cold is a good night’s sleep.
J The best cure for a cold is a good night’s sleep.
a cure for a disease: ‘Is there a cure for tuberculosis?’
296
curiosity
It was this film that first aroused my curiosity on Korean culture.
It was this film that first aroused my curiosity about Korean culture.
curiosity about sth: ‘The article was inspired by her curiosity about plants and medicine.’
Several passers-by stopped to look at the strange bicycle from curiosity.
Several passers-by stopped to look at the strange bicycle out of curiosity.
You do or ask something out of curiosity (NOT from): ‘Jusl curiosity, what made you decide to
marry him after all?’
297
curious
I was curious what she would look like.
I was curious to know what she would look like.
I’m very curious of the country and its inhabitants.
I’m very curious about the country and its inhabitants.
curious about/as to: ‘I’m curious as to how he knows our address. ‘curious to see know etc:
‘We’re all curious to see what his new girlfriend is like.’
298
current
The current world encourages creativity.
The modern world encourages creativity.
We need to know current English, not the language of Shakespeare.
We need to know modern English, not the language of Shakespeare.
current = happening or existing now, but not likely to last for a long time: ‘How long has she been
going out with her current boyfriend?’ ‘The current boom in long-haul travel has led to fierce
competition among the major airlines.’
modern = used or existing in the period of history that we live in now, and not in an earlier period:
‘What do you think of modem architecture?’ ‘Even by modern standards, the pyramids are a
remarkable piece of engineering.’
299
custom
I went there hoping to learn something about Indian culture and custom.
I went there hoping to learn something about Indian culture and customs.
You talk about a country’s customs (WITH s): ‘In Hong Kong I learned a lot about Chinese customs.
See also Language Note at MANNER
He has a custom of coughing before he speaks.
He has a habit of coughing before he speaks.
It’s very difficult for people to change their customs.
It’s very difficult for people to change their habits.
See Language Note at MANNER
Will I have to pay custom duty?
Will I have to pay customs duty?
customs (WITH s) = the place where your bags are examined when you enter a country: ‘We got
held up at the customs while they went through our suitcases.’
customs duty (WITH s) =taxes that you have to pay to bring certain goods into a country: ‘The
customs duty on electrical goods is twenty percent of the retail price.’
300
cut
He cut the strip of photographs and gave one to me.
He cut up the strip of photographs and gave one to me.
Then you cut the carrots and put them into the saucepan.
Then you cut up the carrots and put them into the saucepan
cut up = cut something into small pieces: ‘Two-year-olds can’t eat must unless you cut it up for
them.’
I cut the picture and stuck it on a sheet of paper.
I cut out the picture and stuck it on a sheet of paper.
cut out = remove a part of something by cutting all around it: ‘Each child had to draw a face and
then cut it out.’
To build the motorway, they will have to cut a lot of trees.
To build the motorway, they will have to cut down a lot of trees.
cut down = make something tall (such as a tree) fall down by cutting through it close to the
ground: ‘All the elms were diseased and had to be cut down.’
In the summer I cut my hair very short.
In the summer I have my hair cut very short.
Have/get your hair cut: ‘When was the last time you had your hair cut?’
301
cut down
Through rationalization they were able to cut down the cost of production.
Through rationalization they were able to cut the cost of production.
cut (WITHOUT down) = reduce the cost, price, size etc of something: ‘In the last twelve months the
size of the workforce has been cut by fifty percent.’
302
cut out
Without a car, you are virtually cut out from society.
Without a car, you are virtually cut off from society.
When you are cut off from a group of people, you are separated from them (and feel lonely): ‘It’s
easy to feel cut off from your loved ones when you first go overseas.’
303
cutlery
All the cutleries are in the top drawer.
All the cutlery is in the top drawer.
Cutlery (= knives, forks, spoons etc) is an uncountable noun: ‘You’ll find some clean cutlery in the
top drawer.’
304
damage
The driver was very lucky and was only slightly damaged.
The driver was very lucky and was only slightly hurt.
During the protests, some students were killed and others were seriously damaged.
During the protests, some students were killed and others were seriously
injured/wounded.
Damaged is used in connection with things or parts of your body (NOT people): ‘The engine was
too badly damaged to be repaired.’ ‘The cause of the oil leak was a damaged pipeline.’
People are hurt or injured (badly hurt) in an accident, earthquake, hurricane etc: ‘The scaffolding
collapsed, killing one of the construction workers and injuring two passers-by.’ Someone who is
injured by a weapon. such as a gun or knife. is wounded: ‘He is accused of wounding a fellow
prisoner.’ ‘The wounded soldiers were sent home for medical treatment.’
The fire caused a lot of damages.
The fire caused a lot of damage.
The car crashed into a tree and suffered a severe damage.
The car crashed into a tree and suffered severe damage.
In its usual meaning, damage is an uncountable noun: ‘The insurance company will pay for any
damage.’ ‘The ceiling had suffered a great deal of damage.’
damages (plural noun) = a sum of money that someone is awarded in a court of law: ‘She was
awarded $3000 in damages.’ ‘She claimed damages of £2000 for wrongful dismissal.’
The floods made a lot of damage.
The floods did/caused a lot of damage.
Most of the damage has been produced by acid rain.
Most of the damage has been caused by acid rain.
do/cause damage (NOT make or produce): ‘According to local farmers, the rabbits do a lot of
damage to the crops.’ ‘It’s the gas from fridges that causes most of the damage.’
See Language Note at DO
The bomb caused extensive damage of the surrounding buildings.
The bomb caused extensive damage to the surrounding buildings.
We all know about the damage that smoking can do in our health.
We all know about the damage that smoking can do to our health.
(cause/do) damage to sth: ‘Lack of oxygen can cause serious damage to the brain.’ ‘The scandal
did a great deal of damage to his reputation.’
305
damp
The summer in Japan is very hot and damp.
The summer in Japan is very hot and humid.
damp = slightly wet, especially in a cold and unpleasant way: ‘Our hotel room felt cold and damp.’
‘On damp days, we have to dry the washing indoors.’
humid = warm and full of water vapour: ‘The air in tropical forests is extremely humid.’ ‘I didn’t
expect Singapore to be so humid.’
306
dance
There were lots of young boys and girls dancing pop music.
There were lots of young boys and girls dancing to pop music.
Then we danced with the music of ‘Grease’.
Then we danced to the music of ‘Grease’.
dance to a particular type/piece of music: ‘What type of music do you . prefer dancing to?’
307
dare
I dare to say that the book is worth reading.
I daresay that the book is worth reading.
I daresay (also written I dare say) is a fixed phrase: ‘I dare say that we’ll be hearing from them
again.’ ‘The team will put up a good performance, I daresay, but I don’t think they’ll win.’
‘How dare you to come in without knocking!’ he shouted.
‘How dare you come in without knocking!’ he shouted.
When dare comes in front of the subject, use an infinitive WITHOUT to: ‘How dare you say such a
thing!’ ‘Dare I mention it to her? She’ll be furious.’
He dares to die rather than break his promise.
He is prepared to die rather than break his promise.
I didn’t enjoy the drink but I dared to try it again.
I didn’t enjoy the drink but I was ready to try it again.
Dare (= have enough courage) is used mainly in negative sentences and questions: ‘I wouldn’t
dare to take the car without permission.’ ‘She stood at the edge of the cliff, not daring to look
down.’
In affirmative sentences, use be ready/prepared/willing: ‘Some people are prepared to do
anything for money.’ ‘Despite the threat on his life, he’s ready to testify.’
His mother thinks that somebody must have dared him steal the bicycle.
His mother thinks that somebody must have dared him to steal the bicycle.
dare sb to do sth: ‘I dare you to drink it.’ ‘They dared me to do it again.’
daren’t
I daren’t to ask her for any more money.
I daren’t ask her for any more money.
daren’t do sth (WITHOUT to): ‘I daren’t tell George what happened or he’ll be furious.’
Compare: ‘I don’t dare tell/to tell George what happened ... .’
308
dark
Soon it began to become dark and it was time to go home.
Soon it began to get dark and it was time to go home.
The last candle went out and everything became dark.
The last candle went out and everything went dark.
To refer to the time in the evening or at night when the daylight disappears, use get dark or (in
formal styles) b: ‘In the winter it gets dark by five o’clock.’ ‘It began to grow dark and so we
headed back to the shore.’
To describe what happens when all the lights in a room, building, etc suddenly go out, use go dark
or (especially in formal styles) be plunged into darkness: ‘During the last storm the whole town
was plunged into darkness.’
309
date
On the date of your wedding, I shall be in England.
On the day of your wedding, I shall be in England.
I have to pay the rent on the first date of the month.
I have to pay the rent on the first day of the month.
on the day of sth (NOT on the date of): ‘On the day of my departure, I woke up very early.’
I have an interview at the same date.
I have an interview on the same date/day.
on a specific date/day (NOT at/in): ‘I’m afraid we have no rooms available on that date.’ See
Language Note at TIME
Note, however, the phrases at a later date and at b: ‘The rest of the money can be paid at a later
date.’
up to date, they still haven’t answered our letter.
To date, they still haven’t answered our letter.
to date or up to/until now (NOT up to date): ‘To date there are no signs that the situation is likely
to improve.’
310
day
It was fine autumn day.
It was a fine autumn day.
It was very long day for the children.
It was a very long day for the children.
a/an + adjective + day: ‘It was a perfect day for a picnic.’ ‘It’s a beautiful day, isn’t it?’ ‘What a
terrible day I’ve had!’
Some people watch television all the day.
Some people watch television all day.
all day (WITHOUT the): ‘What have you been doing all day?’
I’m afraid that I can’t come at that day.
I’m afraid that I can’t come on that day.
In the first day, my sunglasses disappeared.
On the first day, my sunglasses disappeared.
See Language Note at TIME
My travel agent had arranged a 6 days coach tour.
My travel agent had arranged a 6-day coach tour.
Day after day the world is becoming a better place.
Day by day the world is becoming a better place.
Men and women have to work in overcrowded offices day by day.
Men and women have to work in overcrowded offices day after day.
day after day = repeatedly or continuously, especially in a boring or unpleasant way: ‘I get fed up
with listening to their complaints day after day.’ ‘I’m not prepared to sit here day after day doing
nothing.’
day by day = gradually: ‘Day by day the weather is getting warmer.’ ‘Their love grew day by day.’
311
days
In these days many children have their own computer.
These days many children have their own computer.
these days (WITHOUT in/during etc): ‘He’s very busy these days.’
Note however: ‘In those days cigarettes were much cheaper.’
In our days we know more about the causes of pollution.
Nowadays we know more about the causes of pollution.
The phrase ‘in our days’ does not exist. For this meaning, use nowadays, these days, or today: ‘I
get the feeling that some people nowadays cannot live without television.’
312
dead
My father is dead when I was still a baby.
My father died when I was still a baby.
The doctor said that she dead because the wound became infected.
The doctor said that she died because the wound became infected.
Dead is an adjective and describes a state: ‘I can’t tell whether that plant is dead or alive.’ ‘Some
of the fish were dead and were floating on the surface.’
Died is the past tense and past participle of die: ‘I think she died from a heart attack.’ ‘He died on
the way to hospital.’
See also note at DIED
The purpose of this ceremony is to honour the dead people
The purpose of this ceremony is to honour the dead.
When you mean ‘dead people’, use the dead: ‘At this time of the tea the villages make offerings to
the spirits of the dead.’
313
deal
We have received a great deal of complaints.
We have received a large number of complaints.
English contains a great deal of words.,
English contains a great many words.
A great deal of countries have already signed the agreement.
Many countries have already signed the agreement.
a great/good deal of + uncountable noun: ‘a great deal of money/time/pleasure’
a large number of + plural count noun: ‘a large number of coins/cars/tourists’
a great/good many + plural count noun: ‘This operation has already saved the lives of a great
many people.’
When there is no need to emphasize the size of the number, use many or (especially in informal
styles) a lot of: ‘Many people have stopped smoking.’
We have to find a new way of dealing crime.
We have to find a new way of dealing with crime.
I don’t have enough time to deal all the questions.
I don’t have enough time to deal with all the questions.
deal with a problem or situation that requires action or attention: ‘Customer complaints are dealt
with by Mr Adams.’ ‘How should the government deal with the AlDS crisis?’
314
deal in
The play deals in the struggle of a married couple to live their own lives.
The play deals with the struggle of a married couple to live their own lives.
deal in =buy and sell: ‘The company deals in textiles.’ ‘Her husband deals in used cars.’
deal with = (of books, articles etc) be about: ‘The last chapter deals with economic issues.’ ‘Her
first book dealt with social discrimination against women.’
315
deal with
These days even young schoolchildren know how to deal with computers.
These days even young schoolchildren know how to use computers.
use/operate/handle a piece of equipment that requires special skill (=make it work): ‘Do you
know how to operate a video camera?’
316
death
In the United States, there were over 17000 deaths of AlDS in 1991.
In the United States, there were over 17000 deaths from AIDS in 1991.
deaths from a disease: ‘The increase in the number of deaths from malaria was causing concern.’
318
defect
Any products that are found to be defect will be replaced.
Any products that are found to be defective will be replaced.
Defect is a noun: ‘The test flight revealed a number of small defects in the navigation system.’
The adjective is defective: ‘Nowadays defective software is quite unusual.’
319
degree
I have a Master degree in international journalism.
I have a Master’s degree in international journalism.
a Master’s degree (or a Master’s), a bachelor’s degree (WITH ‘s): ‘I’m studying for a Master’s
degree in fuel science.’
I have the degree in economics.
I have a degree in economics.
a degree (NOT the): ‘She is studying for a postgraduate degree.’
He is studying for a degree of computer science.
He is studying for a degree in computer science.
a degree in a particular subject (NOT of): ‘a degree in law’.
Note the alternative structure: ‘a computer science degree: ‘a law degree’
I’ve come here to obtain a Master’s degree in International Journalism.
I’ve come here to do a Master’s degree in International Journalism.
do/take/get a degree (in a particular subject area): ‘I’m thinking about doing a Master’s degree
in business administration.’
320
delighted
When they knew that they had won, they were very delighted.
When they knew that they had won, they were absolutely delighted.
See Note at VERY 2
321
delightful
I know that Dad will be delightful if you can come.
I know that Dad will be delighted if you can come.
delightful = (fairly formal) giving great pleasure: ‘Thank you for such a delightful evening. George
and I thoroughly enjoyed ourselves.’
delighted = extremely pleased: ‘I’m delighted to hear that you are feeling better.’
322
demand
In my new job I am demanded to work overtime.
In my new job I am required to work overtime.
If you have to do something because of a rule, law etc. you are required to do it: ‘Under the law the President is required to notify Congress when US troops face imminent hostilities.’
The demand of butter has decreased in recent years.
The demand for butter has decreased in recent years.
a demand for sth (NOT of): ‘Ford has increased production to meet the demand for its new range of cars.’
323
demonstration
Many demonstrations have been made in recent years in protest against the level of pollution.
Many demonstrations have been held in recent years in protest against the level of pollution.
hold/stage a demonstration (NOT make): ‘In London, students and lecturers staged a mass demonstration against the proposed education cuts.’
324
deny
He asked his parents to help him, but they denied.
He asked his parents to help him, but they refused.
When she denied to wear the uniform, she was dismissed.
When she refused to wear the uniform, she was dismissed.
deny sth = say that it is not true: ‘He has been accused of stealing a car, but he denies it.’ ‘Both
companies denied that they had been discharging toxic waste.’
refuse (to do sth) = say that you will not do it: ‘Employers are refusing to discuss a pay settlement
until the staff return to work.’ ‘The students were told to leave the building, but they refused.’
She asked him if he had seen a little boy but he denied.
She asked him if he had seen a little boy but he said he hadn’t.
You deny an accusation or claim (NOT a question): ‘The accused denied both charges.’ ‘He denied
being anywhere near the scene of the crime.’
She accused him of cheating but he denied.
She accused him of cheating but he denied it.
Deny is a transitive verb: ‘He denied that he forged the signature.’ ‘He denied having forged the
signature.’ ‘He denied it.’
325
depart
The next ferry will depart the pier at 9.30 a.m.
The next ferry will depart from the pier at 9.30 a.m.
depart from a place (= leave): ‘The 12.15 shuttle service to Atlanta will depart from platform
seven.’
326
depend
The number of hours he worked was depend on the number of absentees.
The number of hours he worked depended on the number of absentees.
The insurance payment is depends on the value of the goods.
The insurance payment depends on the value of the goods.
Do not confuse depend on/upon and the more formal phrase be dependent on/upon. Compare:
‘The speed of a car depends on the size of the engine.’ ‘The speed of a car is dependent on the size
of the engine.’
Whether or not she passes is depending upon how hard she works.
Whether or not she passes depends upon how hard she works.
When depend on/upon means ‘be shaped or determined by’, it is not used in progressive tenses.
See Language Note at CONTAIN
It depends on if you’ve got enough money.
It depends on whether you’ve got enough money.
it depends on whether (NOT if): ‘We don’t know yet. It all depends on whether the car is fixed in
time.’
327
describe
He described me his sister in great detail.
He described his sister (to me) in great detail.
Let me describe you a typical day in Brazil and then you’ll understand why I live
here.
Let me describe (to you) a typical day in Brazil and then you’ll understand why I
live here.
describe sth (to sb): ‘I described my symptoms to the doctor at the hospital.’
328
description
They needed a description about-the stolen car.
They needed a description of the stolen car.
I’ll send you some English food and a description on how to prepare it.
I’ll send you some English food and a description of how to prepare it.
description of sb/sth: ‘The police now have a full description of the suspects.’
329
desert
I was miles from anywhere, stuck on a desert country road.
I was miles from anywhere, stuck on a deserted country road.
desert = a large area of land, where there is usually nothing but sand: ‘the Sahara Desert’
deserted = empty and quiet, especially because the people who are usually there have all left: ‘I
came back to find the house dark and deserted.’ ‘At night, the city streets are deserted.’
330
desire
Despite all my money, I desired to live in an ordinary house.
Despite all my money, I wanted to live in an ordinary house.
I desire that world peace will continue forever.
I hope that world peace will continue forever.
In the meaning ‘want/wish’, desire is usually used as a noun (NOT as a verb): ‘His one desire was
to live to see his three grandchildren again.’ ‘I have no desire to go there again. Once is enough.’
Note however that this usage is fairly formal.
As a verb meaning ‘want/wish’, desire is used mainly in literary styles: ‘For the first time in her life,
she had everything her heart desired.’ In other styles, use verbs such as want, would like, hope,
wish, intend, etc.
My desire is to become a successful business manager.
My ambition is to become a successful business manager.
When you are talking about something very important that you want to achieve, use aim or
ambition: ‘Her ambition is to represent her country in the Olympic Games.’ ‘Our ultimate aim is to
find a cure for the disease.’
I have always had a strong desire of becoming somebody.
I have always had a strong desire to become somebody.
a desire to do sth (NOT of doing): ‘She has no desire to travel and prefers to stay at home.’
331
despite
Despite the train was empty, he came and sat in front of me.
Although the train was empty, he came and sat in front of me.
Despite the train being empty, he came and sat in front of me.
Despite and in spite of are prepositions (NOT conjunctions). Unlike although (a conjunction), they
cannot introduce a clause that has a finite verb (‘was’). Compare: ‘In spite of/Despite owning two
cars, he can’t drive.’ ‘Although he owns two cars, he can’t drive.’
Despite of my qualifications, I couldn’t get a job.
Despite my qualifications, I couldn’t get a job.
In spite of my qualifications, I couldn’t get a job.
despite sth (WITHOUT of): ‘Despite the heat, she wouldn’t take her coat off.’
in spite of sth (WITH of): ‘In spite of the heat, she wouldn’t take her coat off.’
332
destroy
This unpleasant man with his endless complaints destroyed my journey.
This unpleasant man with his endless complaints spoilt my journey.
When you mean ‘remove the pleasure or enjoyment from’, use spoil or ruin (= spoil completely):
‘The trip was spoilt by bad weather.’ ‘I’ve spent weeks planning this surprise party for Dad, and
now you’ve ruined it by telling him.’
The water had been much too hot and most of the clothes were destroyed.
The water had been much too hot and most of the clothes were ruined.
When you mean ‘make something less attractive, effective or useful’, use spoil or ruin (= spoil
completely): ‘I didn’t join them on their walk because I didn’t want to spoil my new shoes.’ ‘If you
open the camera, you’ll ruin the film.’
The bus wasn’t badly damaged, but the car was completely destroyed.
The bus wasn’t badly damaged, but the car was a write-off.
A vehicle that cannot be used again after being damaged in a road accident is wrecked or
(especially in spoken English) is a write-off: ‘I was stupid enough to lend him my car, and now it’s
a write-off!’ ‘Wrecked vehicles lay abandoned along the roadside.’
333
detail
With a zoom lens, I can study the image in details.
With a zoom lens, I can study the image in detail.
in (great/more/some) detail (WITHOUT -s): ‘The victim was able to describe her attacker in
detail.’ ‘Having actually stayed at the hotel, he was able to describe it in greater detail.’
334
deter
How can we deter our leaders to use the atomic bomb?
How can we deter our leaders from using the atomic bomb?
deter sb (from doing sth) = persuade them not to do it: ‘The common assumption is that
imprisonment deters them from returning to a life of crime.’
335
die
How can we deter our leaders to use the atomic bomb?
How can we deter our leaders from using the atomic bomb?
deter sb (from doing sth) = persuade them not to do it: ‘The common assumption is that
imprisonment deters them from returning to a life of crime.’
336
die
People say she died with pneumonia.
People say she died of pneumonia.
die of/from a disease, heart attack, hunger etc (NOT with): ‘Of these, one in ten will die of lung
cancer.’ ‘Her husband died of a heart attack.’ ‘Each year over a million children die from diarrhea.’
die of home/embarrassment/grief/despair/shock etc: ‘When he told me the price, I nearly died
of shock.’ The poor girl almost died of fright.’ die from the effects of violence, pollution etc: ‘He
died from a bullet wound in the chest.’ ‘Police predict that more people will die from their injuries.’
337
died
Her husband was died two years earlier.
Her husband had died two years earlier.
When you are talking about an event, use die (dying, died, died).
When you are talking about a state, use be dead. Compare: ‘He died in an ambulance on the way
to hospital.’ ‘By the time the ambulance reached the hospital, he was dead.’
See also note at DEAD 1
338
difference
You have to make a difference between women who have to work and women
who choose to work.
You have to make a distinction between women who have to work and women
who choose to work.
make/draw a distinction (between A and B) = not regard or treat A and B in the same way:
‘Sometimes it is difficult to make a clear distinction between qualifications and experience.’ ‘Most
societies draw a distinction between the status of an unmarried woman and a married one.’
As soon as I arrived in the USA, I noticed a big difference of social behaviour.
As soon as I arrived in the USA, I noticed a big difference in social behaviour.
difference in a particular shared feature, practice or quality: ‘Since there was very little difference
in price, we bought the large packet.’ ‘Differences in eating habits can cause considerable
embarrassment.’
339
different
London is different of Hong Kong.
London is different from/to Hong Kong.
In Argentina, Christmas celebrations are completely different as the ones in
England.
In Argentina, Christmas celebrations are completely different from/to the ones in
England.
A is different from/to B: ‘Alex was different from all the other boys she knew.’ Note that most
teachers and careful users prefer from.
My new school is very different than the old one .
My new school is very different from/to the old one.
Different than is used in American English but is rarely used in British English.
340
difficulty
She had a difficulty in obtaining a visa.
She had difficulty (in) obtaining a visa.
have difficulty/difficulties (in) doing sth (NOT a difficulty): ‘Sometimes he has difficulty in making
himself understood.’
I have great difficulty to understand him.
I have great difficulty (in) understanding him.
have difficulty/difficulties (in) doing sth (NOT to do): ‘You should have no difficulty in passing the
exam.’
341
disagree
Those who disagreed to join the army were put in prison.
Those who refused to join the army were put in prison.
disagree = not have the same opinion: ‘He disagreed with nearly everything I said.’ ‘Why did she
disagree with you?’ ‘We tended to disagree about politics, but we were still good friends.’
refuse (to do sth) = say that you will not do something that someone has asked you to do: ‘The
students were asked to leave the building but they refused.’ ‘If anyone refuses to pay their bill,
send for the manager.’
As a conservationist, I strongly disagree with the removal of these trees.
As a conservationist, I strongly object to the removal of these trees.
object (to sth) = say that you are against something’ ‘No member of the Council has ever objected
to this principle.’ ‘He objects to being treated like a child.’
She disagreed totally to what I said.
She disagreed totally with what I said.
Some people disagree to the death penalty.
Some people disagree with the death penalty.
disagree with sb/sth: ‘I disagreed with their interpretation of the statistics.’
I disagree that heart transplants should be stopped.
I don’t agree that heart transplants should be stopped.
When the subject is a particular person, use not agree to introduce a that clause: ‘I don’t agree
that the people there are repressed.’ ‘She cannot agree that farmers should be an exception.’
In more general statements, disagree is usually used with not, nobody etc before a that clause, to
give an affirmative meaning; ‘No one can disagree that these crimes must be stopped.’
(=everyone must agree that ...) ‘Few would disagree that she has served her country well.’ (=most
would agree that ...)
I am disagree with the statement.
I disagree with the statement.
Disagree is used only as a verb (NOT as an adjective): ‘She always disagrees with me.’
342
disappeared
The next morning, the snowman was disappeared.
The next morning, the snowman had disappeared.
One day these problems will be disappeared.
One day these problems will disappear.
Disappeared (from the verb disappear) is not used like an adjective: ‘His wife has disappeared
with the children.’ ‘Suddenly, the pain in my back just disappeared.’
Compare: ‘The next morning, the snowman was gone.’ Unlike disappeared, gone (from the verb
go) may be used like an adjective.
343
discourage
Somehow we have to discourage people to commit crimes.
Somehow we have to discourage people from committing crimes.
discourage sb from doing sth: ‘We always leave the lights on at night to discourage people from
breaking in.’
Compare: ‘You should try and encourage her to take more exercise.’
344
discriminate
Society discriminates old people by denying them the chance to work.
Society discriminates against old people by denying them the chance to work.
Women have been discriminated for far too long.
Women have been discriminated against for far too long.
discriminate against a group of people: ‘The court has ruled that UK employment laws
discriminate against part-time workers.’
345
discrimination
It is time that sexual discrimination on women was eliminated.
It is time that sexual discrimination against women was eliminated.
discrimination against a group of people (NOT on/about/for etc): ‘Feminist groups see this
practice as a form of discrimination against women.’
346
discuss
When I discuss with them, I cannot say the things that I want to say because of my
English.
When I talk to them, I cannot say the things that I want to say because of my
English.
Some people were discussing; some listening to the radio.
Some people were talking; some listening to the radio.
Discuss is a transitive verb and needs an object: ‘I’d like to discuss my homework with you.’ ‘The
two sides will discuss further arms reductions.’
They’d like to discuss about what to do next.
They’d like to discuss what to do next.
discuss sth (WITHOUT about/on): ‘He simply refuses to discuss the matter.’ ‘There is nothing to
discuss.’
Compare talk about, a discussion about/on: ‘They want to talk about what to do next.’ ‘They
want a discussion about/on what to do next.’
347
discussion
He ran away from home after a discussion with his father.
He ran away from home after an argument with his father.
They had a discussion and Dusty killed him.
They had an argument and Dusty killed him.
discussion = a talk about something, especially one which allows different points of view to be
expressed: ‘After further discussion, the government has decided to reject the American offer.’
argument = a quarrel or disagreement: ‘The couple next door are always having arguments.’ ‘I
hate arguments. They upset me.’
348
disguise
To get into the building, I’ll disguise as a reporter.
To get into the building, I’ll disguise myself as a reporter.
See Language Note at MYSELF
349
dish
Dinner usually consists of three dishes.
Dinner usually consists of three courses.
The main dish was roast beef with fresh vegetables.
The main course was roast beef with fresh vegetables.
See Language Note at PLATE
Some children have to prepare their own dishes.
Some children have to prepare their own meals.
Dinner is the main dish of the day.
Dinner is the main meal of the day.
See Language Note at PLATE
350
dispose
Jumble sales provide people with a good opportunity to dispose all their unwanted goods.
Jumble sales provide people with a good opportunity to dispose of all their unwanted goods.
dispose of sth ( = get rid of): ‘The quickest way to dispose of the rubbish is to burn it.’
351
distance
It was a long distance between the hotel and the beach.
It was a long way from the hotel to the beach.
When you want to say that two places are far apart, use a long way (NOT a long distance): ‘My
flat is quite a long way from the university.’ ‘We’re nearly half-way there, out there’s still a long
way to go.’
Compare: ‘I hate driving long distances.’ ‘Computers can talk to each other, even over long
distances.’ ‘Trains are excellent for long distance travel.’
The nearest town is in a distance of ten miles.
The nearest town is ten miles away.
One place is a number of miles/kilometres/yards etc away from another place: ‘She was offered a
job in Sheffield, about thirty miles away.’ ‘The secondary school is about five miles away.’
352
district
We will be touring the famous fruit-growing districts.
We will be touring the famous fruit-growing regions.
The original inhabitants of the district were probably Chinese.
The original inhabitants of the region/area were probably Chinese.
district = (1) one of the official divisions of a city or country: ‘the London postal district’, ‘the South
Cambridgeshire District’, ‘the Liverpool 8 district of Merseyside’, ‘Last winter several London
health districts faced a cash crisis.’ (2) an area in a city (or sometimes in a country) that has a
particular quality or feature: ‘a very wealthy district’, ‘one of the most deprived districts in the
inner city’, ‘an old slum district where the gangs operate’.
A region is usually a large area of a country and has no official boundaries: ‘The President has
declared the region a disaster area.’ ‘Such expansion would most likely occur in the Amazon
region.’ ‘The people who live in this region have a strong accent.’ When you are unsure about
which word to choose, use area. An area can be large or small and has a very general meaning.
353
divide
For lunch and dinner we were divided in groups of ten.
For lunch and dinner we were divided into groups of ten.
The university is divided in five different faculties.
The university is divided into five different faculties.
divide sth into two or more parts (NOT in): ‘Some of these big old houses have been divided into
separate apartments.’
354
divorce
Sally told me she was going to divorce.
Sally told me she was going to get a divorce.
When there are children involved, it is difficult to divorce.
When there are children involved, it is difficult to get divorced.
get a divorce or get divorced (= end one’s marriage by taking legal action): ‘I had just turned ten
when my parents got divorced.’ ‘It took my sister almost a year to get a divorce.’
It’s bad enough when you get divorce, but far worse when you lose your children as
well.
It’s bad enough when you get divorced, but far worse when you lose your
children as well.
If we were divorce, who would look after the children?
If we were divorced, who would look after the children?
be/get divorced (WITH ‘d’): ‘They got divorced in 1993 just twelve months after they were
married.’ ‘It seems as if getting divorced has become fashionable nowadays.’
The fact that your wife crashed the Ferrari is not a good reason to divorce to her.
The fact that your wife crashed the Ferrari is not a good reason to divorce her.
For some reason, she didn’t want to divorce with him.
For some reason, she didn’t want to divorce him.
divorce sb (WITHOUT to/with): ‘She’d divorced her husband six months before and had gone back
to live with her parents.’ Note that get divorced is far more common than divorce someone: ‘For
some reason, she didn’t want to get divorced.’
355
doubt
See THAT 8
Whenever I doubt about the meaning of a word, I look in my dictionary.
Whenever I am in doubt about the meaning of a word, I look in my dictionary.
If ever you have any kind of doubt, come and see me or one of the other teachers.
If ever you are in any doubt about anything, come and see me or one of the other
teachers.
(be) in doubt about sth (= feel unsure): ‘Is anyone in doubt about what they’re supposed to be
doing?’ ‘If you’re in any doubt about your child’s safety, talk to your doctor.’
Note that this meaning is more commonly expressed by be unsure/uncertain (or not be
sure/certain): ‘Whenever I’m not sure about the meaning of a word, I look in my dictionary.’
That is why we still doubt about beings existing in outer space.
That is why we still have doubts about beings existing in outer space.
have (your) doubts about (doing) sth = feel unsure whether something is true or the right thing to
do: ‘We have our doubts about sending Kevin to a boarding school.’ ‘Any doubts she’d had about
marrying him soon disappeared.’
I doubt that she is telling the truth.
I doubt whether she is telling the truth.
When doubt is used to express certainty or near certainty, it is usually followed by a that-clause:
There’s no doubt that he’s innocent.’ ‘I’ve no doubt that he’s innocent.’ ‘I’m in little doubt that
he’s innocent.’ ‘I don’t doubt that he’s innocent.’ In this meaning, doubt is used with a negative
word, e.g. not/no/little/not much.
When doubt means ‘think that something is unlikely’, it is usually followed by if/whether: ‘I doubt
whether he’s innocent.’ (= I think that he is probably guilty) ‘She doubts whether she’ll be able to
come on Sunday.’
Note that some people may also say ‘I doubt that he’s innocent’, but careful users regard this as
incorrect.
There is no doubt that she doesn’t want the job.
She obviously doesn’t want the job.
There is no doubt that most parents are willing to spend a lot of money on their
child’s education .
Most parents are willing to spend a lot of money on their child’s education.
There is no doubt that is usually used in formal styles when you want to persuade someone that
what you are saying is true: There is no doubt that the present government has lost a great deal
of support.’ This phrase is sometimes used when a ‘lighter’ expression (e.g. of course, obviously,
clearly, certainly, needless to say) or nothing at all would be more natural.
It is no doubt that the rich have a great advantage.
There is no doubt that the rich have a great advantage.
there is no doubt that (NOT it is ... ): There is no doubt that the number of casualties would have
escalated had it not been for UN intervention.’
Without doubt you’re tired after your journey.
No doubt you’re tired after your journey.
The recovery of the Mary Rose is, no doubt, a great scientific achievement.
The recovery of the Mary Rose is, without doubt, a great scientific achievement.
without doubt = ‘I firmly believe this to be true’: ‘He is without doubt one of the greatest
composers the world has ever known.’
no doubt = ‘I expect’ or ‘I suppose’: ‘No doubt you could do with a drink.’ They will no doubt be
writing to us again.’
Another reason for getting married is without doubt to have children.
Another reason for getting married of course is to have children.
Use without doubt with opinions and judgements: ‘She is without doubt one of the kindest
women you’ll ever meet.’
When you mention a fact or something that is generally agreed, use of course: ‘Mrs Thatcher is no
longer in charge, of course.’
356
downstairs
I ran to downstairs and picked up the telephone.
I ran downstairs and picked up the telephone.
The dining room and kitchen are in the downstairs.
The dining room and kitchen are downstairs.
Downstairs and upstairs are usually adverbs and are not used with to/in/at etc: ‘The bathroom is
upstairs.’ ‘I ran upstairs to see what all the noise was about.’
357
drama
After the meal, we went to see a drama at the Cambridge Theatre.
After the meal, we went to see a play at the Cambridge Theatre.
drama (uncountable) = a type of literature consisting of plays in general, or a particular group of
plays: ‘She has always been interested in music and drama.’ ‘Elizabethan drama is too
bloodthirsty for my liking.’
play (countable) = a dramatic performance by actors in a theatre or on the radio/television; a
piece of literature that has been written for actors to perform in a theatre etc: ‘The film is a clever
adaptation of Alan Ayckbourn’s popular play.’ ‘The critics have generally been surprised by this
play, which was written to be performed without props or scenery.’
Note that drama is sometimes used as a countable noun to refer to a specific type of play: ‘We
were expecting to see a comedy, not a serious drama.’ When you simply mean ‘a dramatic
performance’ (as opposed to a musical/ballet/opera etc), use play.
358
dream
I have always dreamed to visit America.
I have always dreamed of visiting America.
dream of doing sth = think about something pleasant that you would like to happen: ‘As a child, I
used to dream of becoming a famous actress and living in a big house in Hollywood.’
359
dress
It took me half an hour to dress the kimono.
It took me half an hour to put on the kimono.
See Language Note at WEAR
I had a shower and began to dress myself.
I had a shower and began to get dressed.
See Language Note at WEAR
At work I have to dress a dark blue suit.
At work I have to wear a dark blue suit.
See Language Note at WEAR
You should see the children’s faces when we dress ourselves as clowns.
You should see the children’s faces when we dress up as clowns.
See Language Note at WEAR
She was dressed with a white blouse and blue skirt.
She was dressed in a white blouse and blue skirt.
Everybody was dressed with their smartest clothes.
Everybody was (dressed) in their smartest clothes.
See Language Note at WEAR
360
dress up
I dressed up quickly and rushed out of the house.
I got dressed quickly and rushed out of the house.
See Language Note at WEAR
Even though they don’t have much money, their children are always dressed up
smartly.
Even though they don’t have much money, their children are always smartly
dressed.
See Language Note at WEAR
361
drown
Nobody knows why the ship drowned.
Nobody know why the ship sank.
See Note at SINK
The boy was nearly drown.
The boy was drowning.
A man jumped into the river to save her from being drown.
A man jumped into the river to save her from drowning.
drown (verb) = die by being under the water and unable to breathe: ‘Help him! He’s drowning!’
‘The lifeguard got to him too late. He had already drowned.’ ‘She keeps away from the water
because she’s afraid of drowning.’
362
drunken
The man was obviously drunken.
The man was obviously drunk.
One of the two drunken men shouted at me.
One of the two drunks shouted at me.
Drunken is rarely used to describe a person. It usually describes an action or event: ‘drunken
driving’, ‘drunken laughter’, ‘a drunken brawl’, ‘a drunken orgy’. The exception is ‘drunken drivers’
(usually drunk drivers in AmE). Drunken always comes before a noun.
To describe a person, use drunk (NOT drunken): ‘I think he wanted to get us all drunk.’ ‘One of the
students was always getting drunk.’ Drunk is not used before a noun.
When you mean ‘a person who is drunk’, use a drunk: ‘A couple of drunks were causing a
disturbance.’
363
dull
If I did the same thing every day, I would be dull.
If I did the same thing every day, I would be bored.
It was such a dull job that I decided to leave.
It was such a boring job that I decided to leave.
When dull is used to describe a person, it means ‘slow to learn or understand’: ‘He was one of the
dullest students I’d ever taught.’ Both dull and boring can mean ‘uninteresting’ but in this sense
dull usually describes a lecture, book, film etc: ‘The lecture was so dull that some of the students
got up and left.’
bored = tired and uninterested: ‘bored students’
boring = causing someone to be tired and uninterested: ‘a boring lesson’
364
during
After the accident, I had to stay in hospital during three months.
After the accident, I had to stay in hospital for three months.
It is difficult to concentrate during such a long time.
It is difficult to concentrate for such a long time.
During answers the question ‘When?’: ‘During her stay here, she made a lot of good friends.’
For answers the question ‘How long?’: ‘I’ve been learning English for two years.’ ‘We’ve been
waiting here for almost an hour.’
My uncle has known me during all my life.
My uncle has known me all my life.
The baby cried during all night long.
The baby cried all night long.
When a phrase saying ‘how long’ begins with all, there is no preposition: ‘It rained all night.’ ‘He’s
been in bed all day.’
During waiting for the train, I met an old friend of mine.
While waiting for the train, I met an old friend of mine.
This was my biggest problem during I was living in the United States.
This was my biggest problem while I was living in the United States.
See Note at WHILE 1
365
dust
People eventually get ill from breathing in all the dusts and smoke.
People eventually get ill from breathing in all the dust and smoke.
Dust is an uncountable noun: ‘The house hadn’t been lived in for a long time and the furniture was
covered in dust.’
366
each
We had to answer each questions on a new page.
We had to answer each question on a new page.
each + singular noun: ‘Each child was given a balloon.’
Each of the nurses were very kind.
Each of the nurses was very kind.
Each of us have a room on the top floor.
Each of us has a room on the top floor.
each of + plural noun/pronoun + singular verb: ‘Each of the three children was given a balloon.’
Each of us did not have an umbrella.
None/Neither of us had an umbrella.
See Language Note at NOT
They have each their own problems.
They each have their own problems.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
367
each other
I hope that you will both write to each others.
I hope that you will both write to each other.
Each other has no plural form: ‘We’ve been writing letters to each other for the last two years.’
We had to describe the pictures each other.
We had to describe the pictures to each other.
They live a long way each other.
They live a long way from each other.
You use prepositions in front of each other (pronoun) in the same way as you use prepositions in
front of him, her, us etc. Compare: ‘We talked to her.’ ‘We talked to each other.’
See also ONE ANOTHER
368
earn
He earned a lot of money on the lottery.
He won a lot of money on the lottery.
You earn money by doing work for which you are paid: ‘She earns $4,000 a month.’
You win money by being lucky in a competition etc: The last time he played roulette, he won
about $50,000.’
369
earnest
The earnest students never missed a class.
The serious students never missed a class.
Earnest is used to describe someone who takes life too seriously, often failing to see things that
are humorous: ‘He’s one of those very earnest types that go around looking for problems to solve.’
Serious is used to describe someone who is fully committed to something: ‘I see her at the karate
club once a week, but I don’t think she’s serious.’
370
earth
I have friends in different parts of the earth.
I have friends in different parts of the world.
We must all work together to protect the earth.
We must all work together to protect the planet.
earth/Earth = the ball-shaped object that we live on, usually seen as a planet in space: ‘The earth
moves round the sun every 365 days.’ ‘On the journey back to Earth, one of the spaceship’s
computers failed.’
world = the ball-shaped object that we live on, usually seen in terms of people, countries, cities
etc: ‘Tuberculosis is still common in some parts of the world.’ ‘It’s one of the largest countries in
the world.’ ‘You’ll be seeing some of the world’s leading golfers.’
Note the expression all over the world (= everywhere in the world): ‘I have friends all over the
world.’
planet = the ball-shaped object that we live on, usually seen in terms of the natural environment:
‘This disaster could affect the whole planet.’ ‘The planet is gradually getting warmer.’
The aliens were fascinated by life in earth.
The aliens were fascinated by life on earth.
Mankind has lived in the earth for thousands of years.
Mankind has lived on the earth for thousands of years.
on (the) earth (NOT in (the) earth): ‘Australia has some of the strangest animals to be found
anywhere on earth.’ ‘Peace on earth is still just a dream.’
371
easily
These computers can be used easily.
These computers are easy to use.
subject + be easy to use/make/read etc: ‘Her English is very easy to understand.’ ‘The old
manager was much easier to get along with.’
In London you easily get from one place to another.
In London it’s easy to get from one place to another.
It’s easy (for sb) to do sth: ‘It’s easy to get lost in London.’ ‘It’s easy to see why everyone likes
him.’
The next morning I didn’t get up easily.
The next morning I found it difficult to get up.
The next morning I had difficulty (in) getting up.
Instead of using a negative verb with easily, use an affirmative verb with difficult/difficulty: ‘I find
earl’s handwriting very difficult to read.’ ‘Sometimes it’s difficult to know what to do.’
East
372
eat
Instead of having a proper meal, he just eats a few pills.
Instead of having a proper meal, he just takes a few pills.
take a pill, tablet, aspirin, medicine, etc (NOT eat): ‘Why do you take sleeping pills every night?’
373
economic
The main aim is to develop the country’s economic.
The main aim is to develop the country’s economy.
See Language Note below
Travelling around Spain is easy and economic.
Travelling around Spain is easy and inexpensive.
See Language Note below
374
economical
The undeveloped countries need economical support.
The undeveloped countries need economic support.
The economical crisis was caused by a sudden increase in the size of the
population.
The economic crisis was caused by a sudden increase in the size of the
population.
See Language Note at ECONOMIC
375
economics
My country has serious economics problems.
My country has serious economic problems.
See Language Note at ECONOMIC
The Brazilian economics seem to be improving.
The Brazilian economy seems to be improving.
See Language Note at ECONOMIC
376
edit
I have never seen the magazine before - I think it’s only just been edited.
I have never seen the magazine before - I think it’s only just been published.
For the last three years I’ve been working for a French editing company.
For the last three years I’ve been working for a French publishing company.
edit = examine and make changes and corrections to a manuscript in preparation for printing:
‘The text was still full of mistakes and obviously hadn’t been edited.’
publish = produce (a book, magazine, newspaper, etc) for sale to the public: ‘The book was first
published in 1987.’
377
education
The education has changed my country a lot.
Education has changed my country a lot.
The goal is to provide the free education for every girl and boy.
The goal is to provide free education for every girl and boy.
See THE 4
378
effect
I thought that the long illness would effect my chances of passing the exam.
I thought that the long illness would affect my chances of passing the exam.
affect sth (verb) = have an effect on sth (noun)
Compare: ‘There is no doubt that smoking affects people’s health.’ ‘There is no doubt that
smoking has an effect on people’s health.’
When used as a verb, effect means ‘bring about’: ‘The new president effected several major
changes.’
Many women stop smoking during pregnancy because of the effects to the baby.
Many women stop smoking during pregnancy because of the effects on the baby.
effect on sb/sth: ‘These rays can have a harmful effect on the skin.’
379
effective
British farmers receive only a little aid since their farms are relatively effective.
British farmers receive only a little aid since their farms are relatively efficient.
See Note at EFFICIENT
Aspirin is very effective to relieve pain.
Aspirin is very effective in relieving pain.
be effective in doing sth: ‘Doctors soon realized that this drug was also effective in relieving the
symptoms of arthritis.’
380
effectively
We finally got to see the secretary who confirmed that there was effectively a young man being held in prison.
We finally got to see the secretary who confirmed that there was indeed a young man being held in prison.
Effectively is used to show that you are describing what a particular situation is really like, especially when this is not obvious: ‘At that time, free elections in Zambia were unknown, and Kaunda had, effectively, made himself life-president.’
Indeed is used to confirm that something is true, especially something that a person suspects but is unsure about: ‘I imagined that Rupert had gone back to the hotel and indeed it was there that I found him, splashing around in the pool.’
381
efficient
The medicine proved very efficient.
The medicine proved very effective.
We need more efficient ways of dealing with pollution or the problem will get
worse.
We need more effective ways of dealing with pollution or the problem will get
worse.
efficient = working quickly and without waste: ‘The more efficient the engine, the less petrol it
uses.’ ‘Since the new software was installed, library services have become much more efficient.’
effective = having the desired effect: ‘There are many effective ways of using computers for
training purposes.’ ‘The advertisement was simple, but remarkably effective.’
382
effort
The authorities have put a lot of efforts into making the streets cleaner.
The authorities have put a lot of effort into making the streets cleaner.
When you mean ‘the energy or hard work that is needed to do something’, use effort
(uncountable): ‘Digging the tunnel demanded a great deal of effort.’
Compare: ‘All our efforts to persuade Wendell to stay have failed.’
In my opinion, a holiday is a hopeless effort to relax.
In my opinion, a holiday is a hopeless attempt to relax.
When someone tries to do something, especially without being sure of success, they make an
attempt to do it: ‘Having failed to reach the summit last October, the climbers are now getting
ready to make a second attempt.’ ‘All attempts to control inflation have failed.’
Little effort has been done to solve the problem.
Little effort has been made to solve the problem.
Sometimes I have to do a great effort not to cry.
Sometimes I have to make a great effort not to cry.
make an effort (NOT do): ‘The manager would like to see the whole team making more of an
effort.’ See Language Note at DO
383
either
I shall either go home to Brazil or my family will come to England.
Either I shall go home to Brazil or my family will come to England.
We either can go by bus or by car.
We can go either by bus or by car.
The position of either should be the same as the position of or (i.e. immediately before a subject,
immediately before a main verb, immediately after a verb, etc): ‘Either stay or go.’ ‘You should
either stay or go.’ ‘You should stay either here or at home.’ ‘You should stay with either me or your
uncle.’
Note that this rule applies mainly in formal styles. In everyday conversation, either often goes
immediately before the main verb: ‘We can either go by bus or by car.’
In fact, a motorway wouldn’t either disturb the animals because they are used to
cars.
In fact, a motorway wouldn’t disturb the animals either because they are used to
cars.
When either is used after no/never etc, it goes at the end of the clause: ‘John isn’t going to the
party, and Ray doesn’t want to go either.’
384
elder
The restaurant seems to be more popular with elder people.
The restaurant seems to be more popular with older people.
The young man was unhurt but the elder one was taken to hospital in an
ambulance.
The young man was unhurt but the older one was taken to hospital in an
ambulance.
Do not use elder unless you are talking about the members of a family: ‘her elder brother’, ‘my
elder son’.
My sister is just two years elder than me.
My sister is just two years older than me.
Someone/something is older (than someone/something else): ‘Their children are older than ours.’
‘Her husband is five years older.’ Elder is mainly used in front of a noun (‘my elder sister’) and as a
pronoun (‘Which of the two sisters is the elder?’)
385
elderly
John, her elderly son, is still at university.
John, her elder son, is still at university.
elderly = old: ‘an elderly man with white hair and a stick’
elder = (of brothers, daughters etc) older: ‘our elder daughter’
386
elect
Some people elect marriage partners who are totally unsuitable.
Some people choose marriage partners who are totally unsuitable.
elect = choose (someone) by voting for them: ‘The committee has elected a new chairman.’
choose = decide which one you want: ‘We chose Greece because we hadn’t been there before.’
My father’s company imports electric goods.
My father’s company imports electrical goods.
See Language Note above
387
electricity
Our lives depend on the electricity.
Our lives depend on electricity.
See Note at THE 4
388
electronic
I studied electronic and computers for three years.
I studied electronics and computers for three years.
I work for an electronic company.
I work for an electronics company.
See Language Note above
An electronic razor is fine until there is a power cut.
An electric razor is fine until there is a power cut.
See Language Note at ELECTRIC
389
else
She said that she hadn’t told anybody else than her husband.
She said that she hadn’t told anybody other than her husband.
other than = apart from; except for (NOT else than): ‘The two of us had nothing that was worth
stealing other than my watch.’
Compare: ‘I’m tired of this programme; let’s watch something else.’
390
emergency
We were shown what to do if there was an emergency event.
We were shown what to do in an emergency (situation).
A basic understanding of car engines can be very useful, especially in emergency
cases.
A basic understanding of car engines can be very useful, especially in
emergencies.
emergency or emergency situation: ‘Should you ever have to deal with an emergency, just stay
calm and try not to panic.’
391
emphasis
Both philosophies emphasis the individual.
Both philosophies emphasize the individual.
Emphasis is a noun: ‘Modern society places emphasis on achievement.’ The verb is emphasize:
‘Modern society emphasizes achievement.’
392
emphasize
My previous teacher emphasized on the importance of grammar.
My previous teacher emphasized the importance of grammar.
emphasize sth (verb) WITHOUT on: ‘The candidate made a short speech emphasizing the need
or solidarity.’
emphasis on sth (noun): ‘In all our courses there is an emphasis on student-centred learning.’
393
end
At the end I decided not to go.
In the end I decided not to go.
In the end of the dinner someone made a speech.
At the end of the dinner someone made a speech.
See Language Note opposite
In the end, I would like to wish you all a very interesting and enjoyable stay.
Finally, I would like to wish you all a very interesting and enjoyable stay.
See Language Note opposite
The film was ended at eight-thirty.
The film ended at eight-thirty.
The verb end is usually intransitive: ‘The war ended in 1975.’ ‘When does the next programme
end?’ ‘Just as the film was ending, the baby woke up.’
When end is transitive, it means ‘finish or stop something’: ‘I couldn’t decide how to end the
letter.’ ‘To end the meal we had some coffee and an ice-cream.’
Since nobody would lend me the money, I ended asking my father for it.
Since nobody would lend me the money, I ended up asking my father for it.
The trouble with smoking is that you end with making a habit of it.
The trouble with smoking is that you end up making a habit of it.
Nowadays very few criminals end in jail.
Nowadays very few criminals end up in jail.
end = finish or cause (something) to finish: ‘The lessons usually end at five o’clock but some
teachers end their lessons early.’
end up = (1) be forced to do something (after everything else has failed): ‘For months she refused
to pay us any rent, so we ended up taking her to court.’ (2) eventually find yourself in a particular
place or condition: ‘If you don’t stop smoking, you’ll end up in hospital.’
394
end up
The talk was followed by a film which ended up at midnight.
The talk was followed by a film which ended at midnight.
I shall have to end up my letter here.
I shall have to end my letter here.
See Note at END 4
395
endure
More than 160 million people endure malaria.
More than 160 million people suffer from malaria.
endure a painful or very unpleasant situation: ‘The people in this country have had to endure
almost a decade of economic hardship.’
suffer from/with a disease or medical condition: ‘My youngest son suffers from asthma.’
Some people cannot endure the idea of devoting themselves to children.
Some people cannot bear the idea of devoting themselves to children.
When you mean ‘strongly dislike’ or ‘be unable to accept’, use can’t bear/stand: ‘He used to like
cricket, but now he can’t stand it.’ ‘He couldn’t bear the thought of his wife leaving him.’
396
energetic
Our main energetic source is nuclear power.
Our main energy source is nuclear power.
energetic = active and able to work or play for a long time: ‘Does anyone feel energetic enough to
go for another swim?’ ‘My mother was a bustling energetic woman, always in a hurry, always
busy.’
energy = the power obtained from oil, coal, the sun, etc: ‘Oil is not only an expensive source of
energy, it’s running out.’ ‘There should be more research into solar energy.’
397
engage
Simon gave me the ring when we engaged.
Simon gave me the ring when we got engaged.
be/get engaged: ‘When did you get engaged?’ ‘We were engaged for almost a year before we
finally got married.’
398
engaged
Why did you get engaged with Paul if you don’t want to marry him?
Why did you get engaged to Paul if you don’t want to marry him?
be/get engaged to sb: ‘When we first met, she was already engaged to an airline pilot.’
399
engine
I was amazed that such a small engine could hold so much information.
I was amazed that such a small machine could hold so much information.
See Note at MACHINE
English
She’s going to get married to an English.
She’s going to get married to an Englishman.
an Englishman, an Englishwoman (NOT an English): ‘She was the very first Englishwoman to set
foot on the moon.’
400
enjoy
I enjoy to speak foreign languages.
I enjoy speaking foreign languages.
enjoy doing sth: ‘I wouldn’t enjoy sitting at a desk all day.’
During the Christmas holidays I really enjoyed.
During the Christmas holidays I really enjoyed myself.
See Language Note at MYSELF
401
enough
The car parking facilities are not enough.
There are not enough car parking facilities.
The time isn’t enough for us to catch the next train.
There isn’t enough time for us to catch the next train.
Enough usually goes in front of the noun it refers to: ‘Do you have enough money?’ ‘There aren’t
enough teachers.’ For this reason, the sentence often begins with there is/are etc: ‘Is there
enough hot water for a bath?’
402
ensure
We ensure you that we will do our best.
We assure you that we will do our best.
ensure = make certain (that something will happen or exist): ‘We need to ensure that our prices
remain competitive.’ ‘Measures are being taken to ensure public safety.’
assure = tell someone that something will definitely happen or is definitely true, especially to
make them feel less worried: ‘I assure you that the report will be on your desk by tomorrow
lunchtime at the latest.’ ‘The doctor assured me that there was no need for alarm.’
403
enter
The number of foreign workers that are allowed to enter into Japan has increased.
The number of foreign workers that are allowed to enter Japan has increased.
enter a room, building, country etc (WITHOUT into): ‘Whenever a teacher entered the room, the
children had to stand up.’
I entered the train in Oslo.
I got on the train in Oslo.
I boarded the train in Oslo.
get on/board a train/plane/ship: ‘The ticket inspector wanted to know where I had got on.’
‘There’s still time for some duty-free shopping before we have to board the plane.’
Unfortunately, some of my classmates didn’t enter university.
Unfortunately, some of my classmates didn’t get into university.
get into (a) college, university etc (= be admitted to): ‘What qualifications do you need to get into
medical school?’
404
entertainment
The town offers all sorts of entertainments.
The town offers all sorts of entertainment.
Entertainment (= all the things that provide amusement) is an uncountable noun: ‘As far as
entertainment is concerned, we usually go to the discotheque.’
405
equipment
They were not satisfied with the new equipments.
They were not satisfied with the new equipment.
It’s a useful equipment and I intend to have it repaired.
It’s a useful piece of equipment and I intend to have it repaired.
Equipment is an uncountable noun: ‘The school is trying to raise funds to buy some new sports
equipment.’
406
especially
The course has been especially designed for students preparing for the First Certificate examination.
The course has been specially designed for students preparing for the First Certificate examination.
See Note at SPECIALLY 1
In the south of Germany there is a different mentality. Especially the Bavarians are very lively and cheerful.
In the south of Germany there is a different mentality. The Bavarians especially are very lively and cheerful.
Looking after children can be very tiring. Especially young children need a lot of attention.
Looking after children can be very tiring. Young children especially need a lot of attention.
Especially cannot come at the beginning of a sentence. Put it after the subject (NOT in front of the subject): ‘This year’s examination results are surprisingly good. The girls especially have done better than we expected.’
407
establish
I want to establish a cooperative store.
I want to open a cooperative store.
You establish a major company or organization that will probably run forever or for a very long
time: ‘As soon as Rwanda became independent, it established its own national bank.’ ‘Most of the
money is to be used to establish local industries and mobilize the workforce.’
You start or start up a small company or organization: ‘They intend to use the money to start up
their own taxi business.’
You open a new shop, restaurant, shopping mall etc: ‘They’re planning to open a small hotel just
outside town.’
408
estimate
Her master’s thesis was highly estimated and is now being prepared for publication.
Her master’s thesis was highly esteemed and is now being prepared for publication.
estimate = calculate an amount or price without being exact: ‘The police department estimates that the number of crimes will increase this year by about 15%.’ ‘At that point, the public sector deficit was estimated to be around £45 billion.’ ‘The population of Adelaide is estimated at 917,000.’ ; be highly esteemed/thought of = be greatly admired, especially by a large number of people: ‘In the world of fashion, his work is highly thought of.’
Each of us gave a short talk and then we had to estimate each other’s performance.
Each of us gave a short talk and then we had to assess each other’s performance.
assess = consider something carefully and give an opinion about how good or bad it is: ‘Parents should be shown how to assess the quality of a school.’ ‘This test provides a simple means of assessing an applicant’s suitability.’
409
even
Even I go to bed early, I’m still tired in the morning.
Even when I go to bed early, I’m still tired in the morning.
To introduce a subordinate clause, use even if, even though or even when (NOT even on its own):
‘You’ll have to accept the invitation, even though you don’t want to.’ ‘Even when my father is
angry, he never raises his voice.’
Even though I paid her for the room, but I knew she would prefer to live alone.
Even though I paid her for the room, I knew she would prefer to live alone.
See Note at BUT
Many people think that it even snows in Norway in the summer .
Many people think that it snows in Norway even in the summer.
When there is a danger of confusion, put even immediately before the word or phrase that you
want to emphasize (the ‘surprising’ part of the sentence).
In the future it even might be possible to work only thirty-five hours a week.
In the future it might even be possible to work only thirty-five hours a week.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
410
eventually
I am pleased to be able to write to you eventually.
I am pleased to be able to write to you at (long) last.
See Language Note at END
You will be informed of the committee’s decision eventually.
You will be informed of the committee’s decision in due course.
When you mean that something will be done at the appropriate time (remembering that other
things have to be done first), use in due course: ‘The 300 new computers have now been received
and arrangements for their distribution will be made in due course.’
411
etc
They make televisions, radios, and etc.
They make televisions, radios, etc.
And is not used with etc: ‘On the first floor they sell washing machines, dishwashers, spin driers,
etc.’
412
ever
He has ever been my hero.
He has always been my hero.
ever = at any time: ‘Have you ever been to Paris?’
always = from the beginning until now; every time: ‘He’s always been very generous.’ ‘She always
arrives late.’
She was the most unpleasant person that I had ever met before.
She was the most unpleasant person that I had ever met.
ever (used with a verb in the present perfect or past perfect tense) = at any time before now/then:
‘It’s one of nicest houses I’ve ever seen.’
I’m surprised that nobody ever has thought of it.
I’m surprised that nobody has ever thought of it.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
413
every
There was a representative from every countries.
There was a representative from every country.
Every mornings I give him his breakfast.
Every morning I give him his breakfast.
every + singular count noun: ‘I understood every word.’
Every job have its good points.
Every job has its good points.
every + noun + singular verb: ‘Every child was given a red balloon.’
I have to visit the hospital every six week.
I have to visit the hospital every six weeks.
‘every day’, ‘every week’ BUT ‘every two days’, ‘every six weeks’
On every Saturday afternoon I play tennis.
Every Saturday afternoon I play tennis.
See Language Note at TIME
See PERSON 1, PEOPLE 1
See TIME 6
The shop sells every thing, from toothbrushes to radios.
The shop sells everything, from toothbrushes to radios.
Every thing (two words) is not common and is used only when things are considered as separate
items: ‘She worries about every silly little thing.’
This example shows how computers affect our every day life.
This example shows how computers affect our everyday life.
See Note at EVERYBODY
Everyone was tired of listening to her voice.
Everyone was tired of listening to her voice.
See Note at EVERYONE 1
There aren’t enough jobs for every body.
There aren’t enough jobs for everybody.
everybody (one word) = each person; everyone: ‘One day everybody will be able to travel to the
moon.’
every body (two words) = each (dead) body: ‘Every body was collected from the battlefield and
given a proper burial.’
414
everybody
Everybody have to work.
Everybody has to work.
Everybody, everyone and everything are used with a singular verb: ‘Everybody was tired of
waiting.’ ‘During the first few days, everything was new to me.’
Everybody does not like studying when they are that age.
Nobody likes studying when they are that age.
See Language Note at NOT
415
everyday
The sun shines here everyday.
The sun shines here every day.
everyday (one word) = not special or unusual in any way: ‘A good photographer can make
everyday objects look rare and special.’
every day (two words) = each day: ‘Every day I try to learn ten new words.’
416
everyone
This problem affects each and everyone of us.
This problem affects each and everyone of us.
everyone = all the people: ‘Hurry up! Everyone is waiting for you.’
everyone = each single one (of a group or number): ‘When we examined the books we found that every one of them had a page missing.’
418
evidence
There are no reliable evidences to suggest that the situation is improving.
There is no reliable evidence to suggest that the situation is improving.
This true story provides an evidence of the power of advertising.
This true story provides evidence of the power of advertising.
Evidence is an uncountable noun: ‘Medical evidence suggests that men are more likely to have
heart attacks than women.’
419
exam/examination
It happened a few years ago when I was making my university entrance exams.
It happened a few years ago when I was taking my university entrance exams.
take/sit (for)/have/do an examination (NOT make): ‘Of all the students who took the exam, only
45% passed.’ ‘I sit my final exams next July. Note that sit (for) an examination is not used in
American English.
Unfortunately, I didn’t pass in the exam.
Unfortunately, I didn’t pass the exam.
pass/fail an examination (WITHOUT in): ‘She passed all six examinations at the first attempt.’
Compare: ‘I passed the written paper but failed (on) the oral test.’ ‘She did well in chemistry but
failed (in) maths.’
420
example
Medicine is a good example for something that we pass from one generation to the
next.
Medicine is a good example of something that we pass from one generation to
the next.
an example of sth (NOT for): ‘He is a classic example of a man who cannot control his ambition.’
A manager is supposed to give a good example.
A manager is supposed to set a good example.
set an example or set a good example = behave correctly so that the people who copy you will
behave correctly: ‘The school captain is expected to set a good example.’
Compare: ‘Instead of trying to explain the theory, he just gave us a few good examples.’
421
except
Except smoke and traffic fumes, there are several other types of pollution.
Besides smoke and traffic fumes, there are several other types of pollution.
except = not including; but not: ‘She eats everything except fish.’
besides = in addition to: ‘Besides football, he also plays tennis and badminton.’
The old lady never spoke to anyone except someone came to visit her.
The old lady never spoke to anyone unless someone came to visit her.
The old lady never spoke to anyone except when someone came to visit her.
Except (a preposition) cannot be followed by a clause that has a finite verb (‘came’). Use unless (a
conjunction) or except when, except while, except if, except that: ‘Americans are just like any
other people in the world, except that they are more tolerant.’ ‘He tends to ignore me except
when he needs something.’
I had never really spoken to him except saying hello.
I had never really spoken to him except to say hello.
When you are talking about purpose, use except + to-v: ‘I rarely go the market, except to buy
vegetables.’
They want nothing except seeing that the children are happy.
They want nothing except to see that the children are happy.
My brother is good at everything except to wash the dishes.
My brother is good at everything except washing the dishes.
The choice of verb form after except is sometimes determined by a word that comes earlier in the
sentence, e.g. want + to-v, good at + v-ing.
In their free time they do nothing except going from one cafeteria to another.
In their free time they do nothing except go from one cafeteria to another.
She was willing to do anything except to tell me her name.
She was willing to do anything except tell me her name.
do (anything/nothing/what you like etc) + except + bare infinitive: ‘There was nothing I could do
except sit and wait.’
422
exception
Every major city keeps changing and Lisbon is not an exception.
Every major city keeps changing and Lisbon is no exception.
Be no exception is a fixed phrase: ‘I never go out on Sundays; and this Sunday is no exception.’
423
exchange
Is it possible to exchange the camera with a new one?
Is it possible to exchange the camera for a new one?
exchange sth for sth (NOT with): ‘The government is issuing coupons that can be exchanged for
food.’
424
exciting
It is wonderful to be in London at last. I feel so exciting.
It is wonderful to be in London at last. I feel so excited.
See Note at BORING
425
excuse
Excuse me. I didn’t know that you wanted to speak to me.
I’m sorry. I didn’t know that you wanted to speak to me.
Excuse me. I didn’t mean to hurt you.
I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to hurt you.
Use excuse me (1) when you interrupt someone (2) when you are trying to get past someone (3)
when you speak to someone you don’t know: ‘Excuse me but there’s a long distance phone call for
you.’ ‘Excuse me. Do you happen to know the way to the station?’
To apologize to someone, use I’m sorry (or just sorry): ‘I’m terribly sorry. I forgot we’d arranged a
meeting.’
When he got back home he excused himself and promised that he would never run
away again.
When he got back home he apologized and promised that he would never run
away again.
excuse oneself = give a reason for one’s actions: ‘She excused herself from the meeting, saying
that she wasn’t feeling well.’
apologize = say you are sorry for (doing) something: ‘The bank wrote to apologize for
overcharging me.’
He was sorry that he had lied to her and asked her to excuse him.
He was sorry that he had lied to her and asked her to forgive him.
Excuse is used only for minor faults and offences: ‘I hope you’ll excuse my untidy handwriting. I’m
trying to write this letter on a train.’
Forgive is used for all faults and offences, both minor and major: ‘I don’t think he’ll ever forgive
me for calling off the wedding.’ ‘Don’t forget her birthday or she’ll never forgive you.’
426
exercise
Before breakfast I do exercise and then have a shower.
Before breakfast I do some exercises and then have a shower.
I advise you to take as many exercises as you can.
I advise you to take as much exercise as you can.
I advise you to exercise as much as you can.
exercise (countable noun) = a movement or set of movements that you do regularly to keep or
make (a part of) your body strong and healthy: ‘These exercises will help to develop your calf
muscles.’ ‘Sometimes he forgets to do his exercises.’
exercise (uncountable noun) = physical activity such as walking, swimming etc: ‘The doctor says I
don’t get enough exercise.’
exercise (verb) = walk, jog, swim etc to stay healthy: ‘Just because you’re on a diet, it doesn’t
mean that you don’t need to exercise.’
Make sure that you eat properly and don’t forget to make your exercises.
Make sure that you eat properly and don’t forget to do your exercises.
do your exercises (NOT make): ‘Always warm up before you start doing these exercises.’ See
Language Note at DO
You will never be able to speak fluently unless you do exercise.
You will never be able to speak fluently unless you practise.
practise = do something regularly in order to develop a skill: ‘Your driving will never improve if you
don’t practise.’ ‘If we’re planning to go to Montreal next summer, I’ll have to practise my French.’
‘Whenever I start practising the violin, everyone leaves the room.’
427
exhausting
An exhausting investigation finally revealed the cause of the accident.
An exhaustive investigation finally revealed the cause of the accident.
exhausting = causing tiredness: ‘Pushing the car uphill was exhausting.’
exhaustive = so thorough or complete that not even the smallest detail or possibility is missed:
‘Following exhaustive inquiries, the police are at last able to issue a description of the suspects.’
428
exist
The problem of hunger has been existing for centuries.
The problem of hunger has existed for centuries.
See Language Note at CONTAIN
429
expand
I’m doing the course to expand my job opportunities.
I’m doing the course to increase my job opportunities.
expand = become (or make something become) larger in size, area or activity: ‘Metals expand
when they are heated.’ ‘Within three years this small business had expanded into a chain of
department stores.’
increase = become (or make something become) larger in number, amount, cost, etc: ‘Sales of
new cars increased from 1.2 million in 1993 to 1.8 million in 1994.’ ‘By the year 2020 the
government aims to increase the number of secondary schools by 50%.’
The epidemic began to expand rapidly.
The epidemic began to spread rapidly.
When you are talking about a disease, fire, war, social problem, feeling, etc, use spread: ‘The
army was called in to stop the riots from spreading.’ ‘Dissatisfaction with the present government
seems to be spreading.’
The newspapers are not allowed to expand political ideas.
The newspapers are not allowed to spread political ideas.
When you are talking about news, information, ideas, etc, use spread: ‘Within hours the news of
the bank’s collapse had spread all over the world.’ ‘I hope you haven’t been spreading rumours.’
430
expect
After a few minutes he stopped speaking and expected their reaction.
After a few minutes he stopped speaking and waited for their reaction.
She was standing by the reception desk, expecting a taxi.
She was standing by the reception desk, waiting for a taxi.
Use expect when you are talking about what someone thinks: ‘We expected that the hotels in
London would be very expensive, and we were right.’ ‘No one expected the President to resign.’
Use wait for when you are talking about what someone does: ‘How long do you usually have to
wait for a bus?’ ‘I sat down and waited for my name to be called.’
I expect that you will be able to come to the party.
I hope that you will be able to come to the party.
Use expect when you have a reason for thinking that something is going to happen: ‘Her husband
doesn’t like travelling so I expect she’ll come on her own.’
Use hope to express a wish: ‘I hope you have a safe journey.’
I expect your visit and hope that you will be writing soon with the details.
I’m looking forward to your visit and hope that you will be writing soon with the
details.
To say that you feel happy or excited about a future event, use look forward to: ‘I’m really looking
forward to this trip to Japan.’ ‘I look forward to meeting you at the Frankfurt Book Fair.’
Note that look forward to (NOT expect) is often used at the end of a letter: ‘I look forward to
hearing from you.’
You can expect that you won’t be put in the same class as Helga.
You can’t expect to be put in the same class as Helga.
See Language Note at NOT
431
expensive
Prices in Britain are not as expensive as in Japan.
Prices in Britain are not as high as in Japan.
The disadvantage is that the cost is very expensive.
The disadvantage is that the cost is very high.
See Note at CHEAP 1
432
experience
I made my first teaching experience in Scotland.
I had my first teaching experience in Scotland.
While I was going home, I made a bad experience.
While I was going home, I had a bad experience.
have an experience (NOT make): ‘The streets were full of beggars and we had one or two very
unpleasant experiences.’
See Language Note at DO
If I go to England, I’ll have a lot of experiences.
If I go to England, I’ll have a lot of new experiences.
When experience means ‘something that happens to you’, it is usually modified: ‘The book is
based on her experiences as a reporter in El Salvador.’ ‘Don’t give up just because of one bad
experience.’ ‘The trip to Niagara Falls was an unforgettable experience.’
I hadn’t made any experience of changing a car wheel.
I hadn’t had any experience of changing a car wheel.
have no/little/some/considerable etc experience (NOT make): ‘Most of the school inspectors had
at least ten years’ teaching experience.’
See Language Note at DO
I knew that he had no experience driving in the dark.
I knew that he had no experience of driving in the dark.
Older people have had more experience in life.
Older people have had more experience of life.
have no/little/some/considerable etc experience of (doing) sth ‘Do you have any previous
experience of looking after children?’
Many of us have had experiences of living overseas.
Many of us have had experience of living overseas.
When you are talking about someone’s life as a whole, experience is uncountable: ‘Salary will
depend upon qualifications and experience.’
433
experiment
They shouldn’t be allowed to make these experiments.
They shouldn’t be allowed to perform these experiments.
perform/conduct/carry out/do an experiment (NOT make): ‘Further experiments will have to be
conducted before the drug can be tested on humans.’
See Language Note at DO
I agree that it is wrong to experiment with animals.
I agree that it is wrong to experiment on animals.
experiment on a person or animal: ‘Experiments on twins have shown that the human mind has
mysterious powers.’
Compare: ‘Doctors are experimenting with a new drug that, they hope, will provide a cure for the
common cold.’
434
explain
Your teachers will explain you where you are going to stay.
Your teachers will explain to you where you are going to stay.
If you mention a person after explain, you always use to: ‘Let me explain the problem (to you)
again.’ ‘She then explained (to me) how I could make my own shampoo.’
435
explode
The hijackers threatened to explode the plane.
The hijackers threatened to blow up the plane.
People blow up buildings, planes etc. Bombs, fuel tanks etc explode.
Compare: ‘They had planned to blow up the bridge but their bombs failed to explode.’
436
expose
His paintings have been exposed in art galleries all over the world.
His paintings have been exhibited in art galleries all over the world.
expose = let something be seen, especially something that is usually hidden: ‘He undid his shirt to
expose a white hairless chest.’
display/exhibit a work of art: ‘The gallery exhibits mainly contemporary sculpture and
photography.’
437
extinguish
Many species are becoming extinguished.
Many species are becoming extinct.
extinguish = make something stop burning: ‘Before entering the factory, please make sure that all
cigarettes have been properly extinguished.’
extinct = (of a type of animal or plant) completely non-existent, because every single one has died
or been killed: ‘If nothing is done to save the whales now, the species will soon become extinct.’
438
extreme
Since he stopped smoking, there has been an extreme improvement in his health.
Since he stopped smoking, there has been a dramatic improvement in his health.
Doctors have to keep up with all the extreme new medical developments.
Doctors have to keep up with all the major new medical developments.
Extreme is mainly used to describe situations, behaviour, opinions and beliefs: ‘extreme poverty’,
‘extreme caution’, ‘extreme views’, ‘extreme disappointment’.
When you are talking about a change or development, use words such as
great/major/important/considerable/dramatic: ‘Without these major changes, the company
would have collapsed.’
439
extremely
I’m extremely convinced that there will not be another war.
I’m absolutely convinced that there will not be another war.
See Note at VERY 2
440
face
The house faces to a very busy road.
The house faces a very busy road.
It faces to the Gulf of Mexico.
It faces the Gulf of Mexico.
face sb/sth (WITHOUT to): ‘The apartments facing the sea are more expensive.’ ‘They stood
facing each other, but neither of them spoke.’
We now face with a totally different situation.
We now face a totally different situation.
We are now faced with a totally different situation.
face a fact, problem or situation (WITHOUT with/up): ‘You’ll have to face the problem sooner or
later.’ ‘As a result of the drought, the people will face food shortages.’ ‘If found guilty, he faces life
imprisonment.’
be faced with/by: ‘As a police officer, I’m often faced with the task of breaking bad news to
relatives.’
I didn’t like the silly smile in his face.
I didn’t like the silly smile on his face.
She always wears a lot of make-up in her face.
She always wears a lot of make-up on her face.
Someone has something on their face (NOT in): ‘You look like a ghost with all that powder on your
face.’ ‘I could see from the look on her face that she wasn’t interested.’
These problems are just two faces of the same coin.
These problems are just two sides of the same coin.
two sides of the same coin (= two ways of looking at the same situation): ‘Unemployment and
social unrest are basically two sides of the same coin.’
441
fact
In my own country, Saudi Arabia, in fact the government faces many problems.
In my own country, Saudi Arabia, the government faces many problems.
See Language Note opposite
‘Is the operation really necessary?’ - ‘Well, in fact, if he doesn’t have it, he could
die.’
‘Is the operation really necessary?’ - ‘Well, the fact is (that) if he doesn’t have it,
he could die.’
See Language Note opposite
These advertisements are misleading. As a matter of fact, you have to pay for
everything in the end.
These advertisements are misleading. The fact is (that) you have to pay for
everything in the end.
Even if you feel nervous, don’t show it. As a matter of fact, the horse will soon
sense it if you are afraid.
Even if you feel nervous, don’t show it. The fact is (that) the horse will soon sense
it if you are afraid.
See Language Note below
On the other hand, I accept the fact that laws are necessary.
I agree with the fact that politics and ecology will never go hand in hand.
I accept the fact that politics and ecology will never go hand in hand.
accept/appreciate the fact that ... (NOT agree to/with the fact that ... ): ‘I appreciate the fact
that funds are limited.’
442
factory
The wheat is collected and sent to the flour factory.
The wheat is collected and sent to the flour mill.
The brick factory was closed down during the recession.
The brick works was closed down during the recession.
Just outside the town there is a large chemical factory.
Just outside the town there is a large chemical plant.
See Language Note at INDUSTRY
They intend to build either a sports centre or a factory of shoes.
They intend to build either a sports centre or a shoe factory.
Put factory after the thing that is produced: ‘a bottle factory’, ‘a clothing factory’.
443
fall
This problem has been caused by a fall of the birth rate.
This problem has been caused by a fall in the birth rate.
a fail in an amount, rate, level, standard etc: ‘Sharp falls in house prices have renewed the interest
of the first-time buyer.’
444
fall down
She looked at me with tears falling down from her eyes.
She looked at me with tears falling from her eyes.
We sat there watching the leaves falling down from the trees.
We sat there watching the leaves falling from the trees.
To refer to the natural downward movement of rain, snow, tears, leaves etc, use fall (WITHOUT
down): ‘The rain began to fall more heavily.’
One of the horses suddenly stopped and the rider fell down.
One of the horses suddenly stopped and the rider fell off.
fall off a chair, ladder, bicycle, horse, etc: ‘One minute she was sitting on the edge of the chair and
the next minute she’d fallen off.’ ‘If you fall off the ladder, try not to spill the paint.’
445
familiarize
I would like to familiarize with the latest teaching methods.
I would like to familiarize myself with the latest teaching methods.
See Language Note at MYSELF
446
fantastic
The shops in London are very fantastic.
The shops in London are absolutely fantastic.
See Note at VERY 2
447
fantasy
Were the voices real or just products of his fantasy?
Were the voices real or just products of his imagination?
fantasy = a picture in the mind produced by the imagination, especially one which is very different
from reality: ‘He lived in a world of fantasy.’
imagination = (the part of the mind with) the ability to produce mental pictures: ‘Unlike adults,
young children are usually full of imagination.’ ‘His paintings show great technical skill but a lack
of imagination.’
448
far
Singapore is far from London.
Singapore is a long way from London.
‘It’s far to the nearest garage,’ she said.
‘It’s a long way to the nearest garage,’ she said.
Far is mainly used in questions and negative sentences: ‘How far is it to the station?’ ‘Oxford isn’t
far from London.’ ‘It’s not far.’
In affirmative sentences, people usually say a long way: ‘Their house is a long way from the town
centre.’
Far is used in affirmative sentences only when it appears in phrases such as too far, quite far or
far away: ‘I suggest you take the bus - it’s too far to walk.’
When the bomb exploded, everyone tried to get as far as possible.
When the bomb exploded, everyone tried to get as far away as possible.
A place that is a long distance from another place is far away: ‘Her children all live far away, but
they still manage to visit her.’
My village is about 10 minutes far away from Ayia Napa.
My village is about 10 minutes (away) from Ayia Napa.
Far cannot be used after a unit of distance. Compare: ‘The house is rather far from the school.’
(WITHOUT unit of distance) ‘The house is about two kilometres (away) from the school.’ (WITH
unit of distance)
Far East
See MIDDLE EAST
449
farm
I’d like to stay in a farm where you can eat homemade food.
I’d like to stay on a farm where you can eat homemade food.
You live/work/stay on a farm (NOT in): ‘I wouldn’t like to work on a farm during the winter.’
450
fascinated
I was very fascinated by the speed with which they worked.
I was (absolutely) fascinated by the speed with which they worked.
See Note at VERY 2
451
fat
His wife is a little bit too fat.
His wife is slightly overweight.
He’s got very fat since we last saw each other.
He’s put on a lot of weight since we last saw each other.
In western society being fat is considered to be unattractive. The word fat is common but it is not
polite. To say the same thing in a less direct way, use words such as overweight (weighing more
than is normal), plump (having a pleasantly rounded shape), chubby (to describe babies and
children), stout (short and rather fat), or large/big: ‘Large people sometimes have difficulty
finding fashionable clothes to fit them.’ Another way to avoid fat is to use a phrase such as put on
weight or (have) a weight problem: ‘He’s worried about his weight problem.’
452
fault
I apologize for our fault and will send you a full refund.
I apologize for our mistake and will send you a full refund.
If you have time, could you correct the faults in this letter for me?
If you have time, could you correct the mistakes in this letter for me?
Use fault in connection with machines, electrical equipment, and someone’s character: ‘It sounds
like there’s a fault in one of the loudspeakers.’ ‘The secret of a successful relationship is to accept
each other’s faults.’
In connection with spellings, essays, calculations, decisions, etc, use mistake: ‘There are always a
lot of mistakes in Ivan’s work.’ ‘We all make mistakes.’
Since we have the fault, we will not charge you for the dress.
Since it is our fault, we will not charge you for the dress.
Since we are to blame, we will not charge you for the dress.
If you are responsible for something bad that has happened, it is your fault or you are to blame:
‘It’s not my fault that the car ran out of petrol.’ The inquiry will try to establish who is to blame for
the disaster.’
453
favour
I am totally in favour with the proposal.
I am totally in favour of the proposal.
We are going to vote in favour to its construction.
We are going to vote in favour of its construction.
in favour of: ‘Even the producer argued in favour of an 18 rating for the film.’
454
favourable
We are not favourable to nuclear weapons.
We are not in favour of nuclear weapons.
tavourable = expressing approval or encouragement, or saying what someone wants to hear: ‘a
favourable report’, ‘a favourable reply’
be in favour of = support or approve of: ‘Most UN delegates are in favour of the new peace plan.’
455
favourite
My most favourite drink is lemonade.
My favourite drink is lemonade.
An adjective which contains the sense ‘most’ as part of its meaning cannot be used with most.
Favourite means ‘most preferred’.
456
fear
Then I heard the voice again and I had fear.
Then I heard the voice again and I was afraid.
I had fear of being alone.
I was afraid of being alone.
She suddenly felt fear.
She suddenly felt afraid.
be/feel afraid/frightened/scared (NOT feel/have fear): ‘Don’t be afraid. The dog won’t hurt you.’
There’s nothing to be scared of.’
Compare: have a fear of sth (= be afraid of something for a long time or all your life): ‘I’ve always
had a fear of heights.’
I don’t go swimming because I fear of the water.
I don’t go swimming because I am afraid of the water.
I don’t go swimming because of my fear of the water.
He fears to lose his job.
He is afraid of losing his job.
His fear is that he may lose his job.
He fears that he may lose his job.
Fear is used mainly as a noun: ‘My worst fear is that I won’t be able to have children.’ The whole
of his life has been dominated by fear of failure.’
As a verb, fear is used mainly in formal styles to mean ‘be frightened about what may happen if
you do something’: ‘Government officials fear that if they put up taxes, they may lose the
election.’ The rescuers feared that the remains of the building might collapse on top of them.’
All these problems make me fear about the children’s future.
All these problems make me fear for the children’s future.
fear for = be worried about the safety or well-being of someone: The parents of the kidnapped
child did not inform the police because they feared for her safety.’
It took me a long time to overcome my fear to fly.
It took me a long time to overcome my fear of flying.
fear of (doing) sth: ‘I have never been able to get over my fear of heights.’
457
fee
I didn’t know that there would be a delivery fee.
I didn’t know that there would be a delivery charge.
See Language Note at PRICE
We’d like some information about the types of room available and the hotel fees.
We’d like some information about the types of room available and the hotel
rates.
See Language Note at PRICE
If you hire a television, there is a monthly fee to pay.
If you hire a television, there is a monthly rental to pay.
See Language Note at PRICE
458
feel
He is feeling that they have made a big mistake.
He feels that they have made a big mistake.
See Language Note at CONTAIN
I woke up the next day feeling terribly.
I woke up the next day feeling terrible.
Feel is followed by an adjective (NOT an adverb): ‘Does anyone feel hungry?’ ‘We all felt
disappointed.’
Other verbs that are followed by an adjective include be, look, seem, smell, sound, taste: ‘You
look cold.’ ‘That piano sounds terrible.’
She says that she feels herself trapped in the job.
She says that she feels trapped in the job.
See Language Note at MYSELF
459
feel like
In some places you feel like in a jungle.
In some places you feel like you are in a jungle.
Feel like (and feel as if/though) are followed by a clause: ‘I felt as if everyone was staring at me.’
(= It seemed as if ...)
460
feeling
The meeting provided a good opportunity for her to express her feeling.
The meeting provided a good opportunity for her to express her feelings.
feelings (plural) = what you think or feel about something: ‘My own feelings are that the marriage
won’t last more than a year.’ ‘Why does he always try to hide his feelings?’
As it got colder, my fingers lost feeling.
As it got colder, my fingers went numb.
go numb = (of a part of your body) lose the ability to feel anything: ‘While we Were waiting for my
jaw to go numb, the dentist told me about his holiday.’
461
feet
In front of them was a six-feet wall.
In front of them was a six-foot wall.
See Language Note at HUNDRED
It shouldn’t take more than ten minutes by feet to reach the underground.
It shouldn’t take more than ten minutes on foot to reach the underground.
See FOOT
462
fellow
That afternoon my fellows and I were at a swimming pool where there was a party
going on.
That afternoon my friends and I were at a swimming pool where there was a
party going on.
fellow = (informal) a man or person: ‘The new manager seems a pleasant enough sort of fellow.’
your fellow students/workers = the people that you study or work with: ‘I soon got to know my
fellow students and made one or two good friends.’
friend = a person that you like and enjoy being with: ‘I’m having lunch with a friend of mine.’
My boss started to shout at me in front of all my fellows.
My boss started to shout at me in front of all my workmates.
To refer to someone you know because you work at the same place, use workmate or (especially
of people in professional jobs) colleague: ‘The police are questioning the missing woman’s
relatives and workmates.’ ‘I’d like you to meet a colleague of mine, Jean Armstrong.’
463
female
Most females want to continue their careers after marriage.
Most women want to continue their careers after marriage.
In 1992 she won the female marathon in Athens.
In 1992 she won the women’s marathon in Athens.
Female is used mainly in scientific or technical styles: ‘The male birds are usually more colourful
than the females.’ ‘The female butterfly does not require additional salts.’
Female is sometimes used to refer to a woman or girl, but many people find this use of the word
offensive.
464
fetch
She has already packed all her belongings and I just have to fetch them to her new
flat.
She has already packed all her belongings and I just have to take them to her new
flat.
See Language Note at TAKE
I’ll come and fetch you at the airport.
I’ll come and fetch/collect you from the airport.
I’ll come and pick you up at the airport.
See Language Note at TAKE
465
fever
I’d caught a cold and had a high fever.
I’d caught a cold and had a high temperature.
When someone feels rather ill and their body is hotter than usual, they have a (high)
temperature: ‘I feel as if I’ve got a temperature.’ ‘She’s in bed with a high temperature.’
A fever usually refers to a (dangerously) high body temperature, or the disease that produces this:
‘In the steaming jungle he had contracted a fever.’ ‘It seemed as if the fever would shake him to
pieces.’
466
few
With the few money he had been given, he bought an apple and some cheese.
With the little money he had been given, he bought an apple and some cheese.
Few is used with plural countable nouns: ‘very few cars’.
Little is used with uncountable nouns: ‘very little traffic’.
Compare: ‘He had very little money, just a few coins.’
Few minutes later the sales manager arrived.
A few minutes later the sales manager arrived.
a few = not many: ‘I saw her just a few days ago.’
few = hardly any: ‘Few people die of smallpox nowadays.’
467
fight
They spent the whole night fighting against the fire.
They spent the whole night fighting the fire.
Why were the boys fighting against each other?
Why were the boys fighting each other?
When you are talking about an event or something that lasts only a short time, use fight sb/sth
(WITHOUT against): ‘He said he would fight anyone who tried to stop him.’ ‘The best way to fight
a cold is to get plenty of sleep.’
You can use either fight sb/sth or fight against sb/sth when you are talking about a long struggle
to overcome things such as poverty, disease, injustice or oppression: ‘The ANC has spent half a
century fighting (against) racism.’ ‘The group was founded in 1983 to fight (against) the military
regime.’
468
fill
You’ll have to fill an application form.
You’ll have to fill in an application form.
fill in/out a form, coupon etc: ‘To open a new account, you have to fill in an application form.’
‘Remember to fill out the counterfoil.’
fill in an empty space on a form, coupon etc: ‘Just fill in Section A.’
fill in details on a form: ‘Fill in your name and address and then sign the form at the bottom.’
Note that fill out is more common in American English.
469
filled with
My shoes were filled with water so I took them off.
My shoes were full of water so I took them off.
The eight o’clock train is usually filled with office workers.
The eight o’clock train is usually full of office workers.
be filled with = containing so many or so much that there is no empty space left: ‘The first drawer
was filled with neat piles of shirts.’ ‘The front page is filled with the most important news items.’
be full of = (1) containing a large number or amount: ‘The kitchen was full of flies.’ ‘The essay was
full of mistakes.’ (2) be filled with: ‘The kettle was full of boiling water.’
470
finally
It was difficult to understand people for a long time but finally I got used to their accent.
It was difficult to understand people for a long time but eventually I got used to their accent.
See Language Note at END
471
find
I’d like to find why nobody likes me.
I’d like to find out why nobody likes me.
The doctors are trying to find what is wrong with him.
The doctors are trying to find out what is wrong with him.
find = discover something by chance or by looking for it: ‘Did you ever find the sunglasses you lost?’ ‘I can’t find my comb. Have you seen it anywhere?’ ; find out = get information about something that you want to know: ‘He’s gone to find out which gate the plane leaves from.’ ‘I think we should find out exactly what’s missing before we start accusing people.’
Nurses find very difficult to start a family while they are working.
Nurses find it very difficult to start a family while they are working.
find + it + easy/difficult/impossible to do sth: ‘I find it hard to concentrate when I’m hungry.’ ‘You might find it interesting to spend a few hours at the museum.’
472
find out
Looking through the magazine, I found out several interesting articles.
Looking through the magazine, I came across several interesting articles.
If you find out her address, would you please send it to me?
If you come across her address, would you please send it to me?
find out = see Note at FIND 1
come across = find or meet someone or something by chance: ‘While cleaning out the drawers I
came across my old school tie.’ ‘You’ll never guess who I came across in the high street today.’
473
fine
Hello, John. How are you? Very fine, thank you.
Hello, John. How are you? Fine, thank you.
When fine means ‘very well’, it is not used with very or extremely.
See Note at VERY 2
474
fire
If there is a gas leak, the house could go on fire.
If there is a gas leak, the house could catch fire.
One of the curtains became on fire.
One of the curtains caught fire.
catch fire: ‘One of the engines had overheated and caught fire.’
Eventually, the fire went off and the room got colder.
Eventually, the fire went out and the room got colder.
go out = (of a coal fire, cigarette, candle etc) stop burning: The problem with cigars is that they
keep going out.’
475
first
At first, I would like to introduce myself.
First of all, I would like to introduce myself.
There are four points that I would like to make about the college.
At first, there are not enough club activities...
There are four points that I would like to make about the college. Firstly, there are not enough club activities ... See Language Note below
I went and sat next to him. Firstly, I didn’t speak. I just sat there wondering what I could say. Then I said, ‘Nice day, isn’t it?’
I went and sat next to him. At first, I didn’t speak. I just sat there wondering what I could say. Then I said, ‘Nice day, isn’t it?’
Firstly, I couldn’t understand the local people at all.
At first, I couldn’t understand the local people at all.
See Language Note above
476
fish
I had never seen such brightly coloured fishes before.
I had never seen such brightly coloured fish before.
The plural form of fish is usually fish: ‘Did you catch any fish?’ ‘The fish in the market are always fresh.’
The plural form fishes is used mainly in stories for small children and in scientific or technical styles (to refer to different species of fish).
477
fit
You should see a doctor or specialist to find out which type of diet will fit you.
You should see a doctor or specialist to find out which type of diet will suit you.
A school like Summerhill will not fit for everybody.
A school like Summerhill will not suit everybody.
fit = (of clothes, shoes, rings etc) be the correct size and shape for you: ‘These trousers don’t fit me any more.’ ‘The next size up should fit.’ ; suit = be suitable: ‘Try and choose a career that suits you.’ ‘You should buy a dictionary that suits your needs, not just anyone.’
Of course you will need some old paintings to fit the furniture.
Of course you will need some old paintings to match the furniture.
match (or go with) = (of clothes, soft furnishings etc) look good when seen together: ‘We chose a dark green carpet to go with our yellow curtains.’ ‘I can’t wear blue shoes with a black skirt - they don’t match.’
A little exercise will help you to keep in fit.
A little exercise will help you to keep fit.
keep fit (WITHOUT in): ‘She keeps fit by jogging five miles every day.’ ; Compare: ‘Cycling to work helps me to keep in shape.’
478
floor
I was just about to enter the station when someone grabbed ‘me by the shoulders and threw me to the floor.
I was just about to enter the station when someone grabbed me by the shoulders and threw me to the ground.
See Language Note at GROUND
The fire started at the seventh floor.
The fire started on the seventh floor.
Room 229 was in the second floor.
Room 229 was on the second floor.
on the ground/first/second etc floor (NOT in/at): ‘The canteen is downstairs, on the ground floor.’
479
flu
I think I have caught a flu.
I think I have caught (the) flu.
flu or the flu (NOT a flu): ‘They are both off work with flu.’ ‘Even our doctor is down with the flu.’
480
follow
You can go in your own car or follow me.
You can go in your own car or come with me.
Follow means ‘move in the same direction as someone or something that is moving in front of
you’: ‘I have a feeling that the car behind is following us.’
481
food
The child was caught stealing foods.
The child was caught stealing food.
It is a disgrace to serve such a poor food.
It is a disgrace to serve such poor food.
Food is nearly always uncountable: ‘We need to go out and buy some food.’ It is countable only
when it refers to a particular kind of food: ‘baby foods’, ‘health foods’.
482
food
The child was caught stealing foods.
The child was caught stealing food.
It is a disgrace to serve such a poor food.
It is a disgrace to serve such poor food.
Food is nearly always uncountable: ‘We need to go out and buy some food.’ It is countable only
when it refers to a particular kind of food: ‘baby foods’, ‘health foods’.
483
fool
I was fool to believe him.
I was a fool to believe him.
I was foolish to believe him.
Fool is a countable noun and refers to a person: ‘She thinks I’m a fool for lending him the money.’
The adjective is foolish: ‘You were right. It was foolish of me to lend him the money.’ ‘This foolish
idea could ruin everything.’
484
foot
Whenever there is a strike, we have to go to work by foot.
Whenever there is a strike, we have to go to work on foot.
go/travel (somewhere) by car/bus/train/air BUT on foot: ‘We left the car at the bridge and travelled the rest of the way on foot.’
485
for
I have come to London for learning English.
I have come to London to learn English.
To explain ‘why’ someone does something, use a to-infinitive (NOT for): ‘She opened the door to
let the cat out.’ In formal styles, in order to is also possible: ‘UN troops have been sent to the
trouble spot in order to restore peace.’
I studied in Freiburg for to be a kindergarden teacher.
I studied in Freiburg to be a kindergarden teacher.
Being married makes it easier for to answer this question.
Being married makes it easier to answer this question.
For never comes immediately in front of a to-infinitive. Compare: ‘It will be difficult for John to say
no.’ ‘The suitcase is too heavy for anyone to carry all that way.’ (for + sb/sth + to-infinitive).
Unemployment has become a serious problem for the last few years.
Unemployment has become a serious problem over the last few years.
Use for to say ‘how long’: ‘He was with the company for forty years.’ ‘He hasn’t eaten anything for
the last two days.’
Use over/during/in to say ‘when’, especially when this is a long period of time: ‘She’s been a great
help to me in recent months.’ ‘During the next ten years he worked his way up from office boy to
general manager.’
I’m waiting here for almost an hour.
I’ve been waiting here for almost an hour.
I didn’t do any travelling for the last two years.
I haven’t done any travelling for the last two years.
For actions and situations which began in the past and continue up to ‘now’ (the moment of
speaking), use the present perfect tense: ‘I’ve been working part-time for the last six months.’ ‘We
haven’t seen each other for the past eight months.’ Note that in informal American English the
past tense is also used for this purpose.
See also SINCE 1
I do badly in tests for I am lazy.
I do badly in tests because I am lazy.
Do not use for to mean ‘because’. This usage has almost disappeared and is found only in very
formal styles.
486
forbid
The government should forbid cigarette advertising .
The government should ban cigarette advertising.
ban (or prohibit) = forbid someone from doing something by making it illegal: ‘The proposed
treaty banning all nuclear testing has received widespread approval.’ ‘International Law prohibits
the use of chemical weapons.’
There should be a law which forbids to have more than two children.
There should be a law which forbids couples to have/from having more than two
children.
forbid + sb + to do/from doing sth: ‘My parents have forbidden me to stay out after ten o’clock.’
‘Her father ought to forbid her from seeing the boy again.’
487
force
We must not forget Japan’s economic force.
We must not forget Japan’s economic power.
The sovereign has very little force nowadays.
The sovereign has very little power nowadays.
force = the use of power or strength: ‘The demonstrators were made to leave the building by
force.’
power = the ability to control people and events: ‘I think the police have too much power.’
488
foreigner
Some foreigner students feel homesick.
Some foreign students feel homesick.
In my job I have to speak foreigner languages.
In my job I have to speak foreign languages.
Foreigner is a noun and refers to a person: ‘As a foreigner who had only just arrived in England, I
found the phrase ‘car boot sale’ very confusing.’ The adjective is foreign: ‘I enjoy visiting foreign
countries.’ ‘His wife teaches English as a foreign language.’
489
forever
Nobody lives forever.
Nobody lives for ever.
forever = continually; all the time: ‘He is forever asking me for more pocket money.’ ; for ever = for always: ‘He promised that he would love me for ever and a day.’
490
forget
Would you please check whether I have forgotten a black handbag in Room 21.
Would you please check whether I have left a black handbag in Room 21.
If you forget to take something with you, you leave it somewhere. Do not use forget if you
mention a place: ‘If the keys aren’t in your jacket, you must have left them in the restaurant.’ ‘I’ve
left all my money at home.’
491
fortune
It was a good fortune that the driver was able to stop in time.
It was fortunate/lucky that the driver was able to stop in time.
Good fortune is quite rare. It occurs mainly in the phrase have the good fortune to do sth: ‘He
had the good fortune to marry a woman who was both kind and understanding.’
492
friendly
I look forward to hearing from you. Friendly, Leine.
I look forward to hearing from you. Yours, Leine.
To end a letter to a friend, use Yours or With best wishes (NOT friendly). See also YOURS 1
Although I was a stranger, they treated me very friendly.
Although I was a stranger, the treatment I received was very friendly.
Although I was a stranger, they treated me in a very friendly way.
Friendly is an adjective (NOT an adverb): ‘Our new neighbours are very friendly.’ ‘She gave me a
friendly smile.’
493
frightened
When I heard the thunder I frightened for a moment.
When I heard the thunder I was frightened for a moment.
frighten (transitive) = make someone afraid: ‘Take that silly mask off you’re frightening the baby.’
be frightened = be afraid: ‘Don’t be frightened. It’s only thunder.’
494
from
I have been living in England from last September.
I have been living in England since last September.
Use from ... to ... when you mean ‘from one time in the past to another’: ‘I lived in England from
1986 to 1989.’
Use since when you mean ‘from a time in the past until now’: ‘I’ve been standing here since 9
o’clock and not one bus has come along.’
She asked if I’d seen any plays from Shakespeare.
She asked if I’d seen any plays by Shakespeare.
a play, novel, painting, etc by a writer or artist (NOT from): ‘The reading passage was from a
novel by Anita Brookner.’
It’s a short, knee-length coat from white wool.
It’s a short, knee-length coat made of white wool.
See Note at MADE
See NOW 1
495
front
The bus stop is outside the post office, in front of the library.
The bus stop is outside the post office, opposite the library.
in front of = in a position directly before: ‘There was a bus in front of the car and a truck behind it.’
‘All I could see was the enormous hat of the woman sitting in front of me.’
opposite = on the other side of the street, room, etc facing: ‘The police station is directly opposite
the town hall.’ ‘He looked out of his bedroom window at the house opposite.’
496
fruit
The shop sells fruits and vegetables.
The shop sells fruit and vegetables.
I never buy tinned fruits.
I never buy tinned fruit.
Fruit (= fruit in general) is an uncountable noun: ‘We eat lots of fruit in our family.’ ‘Would anyone
care for a piece of fruit?’ (= an orange, apple, pear etc)
Fruits (= particular types of fruit) is rarely used in British English.
497
fully
The editor said that my letter was too long to be fully published.
The editor said that my letter was too long to be published in full.
fully = completely: ‘a fully equipped kitchen’, ‘a fully furnished apartment’, ‘The next three flights
to Chicago are fully booked.’
in full = without any part missing or removed: ‘Your $100 deposit will be refunded in full.’
498
fun
A good novel can give you a lot of fun .
A good novel can give you a lot of pleasure.
When you are talking about something that provides intellectual or spiritual satisfaction, such as a
piano concert or a visit to an art gallery, use enjoyment/enjoyable or pleasure/pleasurable:
‘Reading is her one source of pleasure.’ ‘We spent an enjoyable afternoon at the art gallery.’
Fun is usually used in connection with light-hearted events and activities such as games, picnics,
or children’s parties: ‘John’s parties are always great fun.’ ‘Let’s go to the beach and have some
fun.’
The game we played was very fun.
The game we played was a lot of fun.
College life is not very fun.
College life is not much fun.
Fun is a noun (NOT an adjective): ‘a lot of fun’, ‘not much fun’, ‘great fun’
On my birthday I had a good fun with my friends.
On my birthday I had some good fun with my friends.
It would be a great fun if we could go together.
It would be great fun if we could go together.
See Language Note at SCENERY
While on holiday I made lots of fun.
While on holiday I had lots of fun.
I’m sure that you will get a lot of fun here.
I’m sure that you will have a lot of fun here.
have fun: ‘Everyone needs to have a little fun now and again.’
See Language Note at DO
499
funny
It will be more funny to go by bus.
It will be more fun to go by bus.
We’ve organized lots of funny activities, including a picnic and a trip to the zoo.
We’ve organized lots of fun activities, including a picnic and a trip to the zoo.
Someone or something that is funny makes you laugh: ‘I always laugh at Jenny’s jokes - they’re
really funny.’ ‘The funniest part was when her father-in-law sat on the wedding cake.’
Someone or something that is fun gives you pleasure or enjoyment: ‘The Disneyland trip sounds
like a lot of fun.’
The carnival is held once a year and everyone has a funny time.
The carnival is held once a year and everyone has a good time.
have a good time = enjoy yourself: ‘Everyone was dancing and having a good time.’
500
furniture
The room was so full of furnitures it was difficult to move.
The room was so full of furniture it was difficult to move.
Furniture is an uncountable noun: ‘We need some new furniture for the lounge.’ ‘Our showrooms
up and down the country stock the latest ideas in bedroom furniture.’
501
future
In future, when my youngest child has started school, I’d like to get a job.
In the future, when my youngest child has started school, I’d like to get a job.
in future = from now on (commonly used in announcements and warnings): ‘In future anyone
arriving late for class will not be admitted.’
in the future = at some time in the future: ‘In the future it is quite possible that a new source of
energy will be discovered.’
502
gain
For two weeks’ work, I gain about 700,000 yen.
For two weeks’ work, I earn about 700,000 yen.
Without a job it’s impossible to gain any money.
Without a job it’s impossible to earn any money.
earn or (especially in informal styles) get/make (a sum of) money by going to work, from
investments, etc (NOT gain): ‘She earns $4,000 a month.’
503
gentle
My father was a very gentle man, always helping people.
My father was a very kind man, always helping people.
gentle = (1) used to describe someone who never shows anger or impatience in what they say or
do: ‘His brother was always ready for a fight, but Tim was quiet and gentle.’
(2) not loud, forceful or rough: ‘He spoke to the child in a quiet, gentle voice so as not to frighten
her.’ ‘She found the doctor’s gentle manner very reassuring.’
504
gently
The shop assistant asked me gently what I wanted.
The shop assistant asked me politely what I wanted.
gently = in a way that will not hurt or damage anything: ‘She held the little bird very gently.’
politely = in a way that shows good manners: ‘He politely refused her offer, saying that he didn’t
want to trouble her.’
I wonder if you would gently lend us a room for one of the monthly meetings.
I wonder if you would kindly lend us a room for one of the monthly meetings.
In polite formal requests, use if you would/could kindly (or if you would be so kind as to): ‘I
would be very grateful if you would kindly allow Julian to leave school early on Tuesday.’
505
get off
I got off my car to inspect the damage.
I got out of my car to inspect the damage.
get off a bus, train, plane, boat, ship, bicycle: ‘The bus driver will tell you where to get off.’ ‘I got
off the train at the wrong station.’
get out of a car, taxi, boat, train, lift: ‘Getting out of a boat can be quite tricky.’
506
give
She gave to him some cheese sandwiches.
She gave him some cheese sandwiches.
They always give to the new students a warm welcome.
They always give the new students a warm welcome.
give sth to sb BUT give sb sth (WITHOUT to)
Compare: ‘They gave a medal to each member of the team.’ ‘They gave each member of the team
a medal.’
507
glad
I would be glad if you could send me an application form.
I would be grateful if you could send me an application form.
To make a formal request, use would be grateful if (NOT glad): ‘We would be grateful if you could
consider this matter at your earliest convenience.’
She was a very glad person, and very intelligent.
She was a very happy person, and very intelligent.
We hope that you will like this school and be glad here.
We hope that you will like this school and be happy here.
glad (not used in front of a noun) = pleased and happy about something in particular: ‘I’m so glad
your wife is feeling better.’ ‘I’m glad it wasn’t my turn to pay.’
happy = enjoying life: ‘She’s a lot happier now that the examinations are over.’
508
glass
I have to vacuum the floors and clean the glasses of the windows.
I have to vacuum the floors and clean the windows.
The sunlight poured in through the glasses of the bedroom window.
The sunlight poured in through (the panes of) the bedroom window.
pane (or window-pane) = a sheet of glass used in a window: ‘The two cracked panes will have to
be replaced.’
Note that pane and window-pane are rarely used. Their meaning is usually expressed by window.
509
glasses
He wears an old-fashioned glasses which make him look intelligent.
He wears old-fashioned glasses which make him look intelligent.
Glasses (= spectacles) is a plural noun: ‘I wear glasses just for reading.’ ‘Have you seen my
glasses?’
510
go
The next morning she went to see us at the hotel.
The next morning she came to see us at the hotel.
Come is used for movement towards the speaker/listener: ‘Come in and sit down for a few
minutes.’ ‘When can’ come and see you?’
Go is used for movement in other directions: ‘Could you go upstairs and turn the lights off?’
How do I go to the Holiday Inn?
How do I get to the Holiday Inn?
He was lost and didn’t know how to go back home.
He was lost and didn’t know how to get back home.
When you mean ‘arrive’, use get (to): ‘I got to the classroom five minutes late.’ ‘When does the
train get there?’
We go to swim every day on holiday.
We go swimming every day on holiday.
They’ve gone for camping on Lantau Island.
They’ve gone camping on Lantau Island.
go swimming/sightseeing/shopping etc: ‘They’ve probably gone fishing.’
That evening my boyfriend and I went out to walk.
That evening my boyfriend and I went for a walk.
go for a walk/swim/jog etc: ‘Would anyone like to go for a drive?’
511
go ahead
See CAR
See FIRE 1, 3
Without additional qualifications, it will be impossible for me to go ahead in my
career.
Without additional qualifications, it will be impossible for me to get ahead in my
career.
If you are successful in your career, studies etc, you get ahead (NOT go ahead): ‘The old education
system favoured boys, and girls found it difficult to get ahead.’
512
go down
Culture shock begins as soon as you go down from the plane.
Culture shock begins as soon as you get off the plane.
See Note at GET OFF
513
go out
As soon as the bus stopped, he went out.
As soon as the bus stopped, he got off.
I went out of the car and waited for someone to stop and help me.
I got out of the car and waited for someone to stop and help me.
See Note at GET OFF
514
goal
We reached our goal just after three o’clock.
We reached our destination just after three o’clock.
goal = something that you hope to achieve: ‘The company’s goal is to double its share of the
personal computer market.’
destination = the place that you are travelling to: ‘The immigration officer wanted to know my
destination and how long I was planning to stay.’
515
golden
It’s a navy blue coat with golden buttons.
It’s a navy blue coat with gold buttons.
The purse contained six golden coins.
The purse contained six gold coins.
Golden is used in idiomatic expressions such as ‘a golden opportunity’, ‘a golden handshake’, ‘a
golden wedding anniversary’, and in the phrase ‘golden hair’ (used mainly in literary styles).
To describe something that is made of gold or is the colour of gold, use gold: ‘a gold bracelet’, ‘a
black dress with red and gold stripes down the front’.
516
gone
Have you ever gone to France? she asked.
Have you ever been to France? she asked.
In British English, been is used when someone has visited a place and returned. Gone is used when the person is still in the place they are visiting. Compare: ‘Peter has gone to Paris.’ (= he has not yet returned) ; ‘Peter has been to Paris.’ (= he has visited Paris and returned) In American English gone can be
used instead of been.
517
gonna
Do you know when the plane is gonna land?
Do you know when the plane is going to land?
The principal is gonna give a talk in the morning.
The principal is going to give a talk in the morning.
Do not use gonna (= going to) or wanna (= want to) unless you are trying to represent informal
conversation.
518
good
I don’t speak English very good.
I don’t speak English very well.
Good is an adjective: ‘She is a very good singer.’
Well is an adverb: ‘She sings very well.’
I hope I’ll do good in tomorrow’s test.
I hope I’ll do well in tomorrow’s test.
If you are successful (in a test, interview etc), you do well (in it): ‘I did quite well in maths and
chemistry but my physics result was very disappointing.’
My sister is very good in squash,
My sister is very good at squash.
I’m not very good in writing essays.
I’m not very good at writing essays.
be good at (doing) sth: ‘He’s good at all science subjects.’ ‘Are you any good at chess? 
There’s no good putting a very young child in a kindergarten.
It’s no good putting a very young child in a kindergarten.
It’s no good to want to help the poor if you don’t do anything about it.
It’s no good wanting to help the poor if you don’t do anything about it.
it is no good/use (doing sth) = it is pointless: ‘It’s no good having a car if you can’t drive.’
519
goods
He had very little money and very few goods.
He had very little money and very few possessions.
goods = things that are made to be sold: ‘The supermarket has a wide variety of frozen goods.’
‘The average family’s weekly expenditure on goods and services has risen by 20%.’
possessions = all the things that a person owns: ‘After his mother died, Andrew had the
unpleasant task of sorting through her possessions.’
520
gossip
She told me gossips about all her relations.
She told me a lot of gossip about all her relations.
See Language Note at SCENERY
521
got
I got several friends who don’t want children.
I have (got) several friends who don’t want children.
Got is not used to replace have: ‘I have two sisters.’ ‘I’ve got two sisters.’ (NOT ‘I got two sisters.’)
522
grade
By the end of the war he had been promoted to the grade of captain.
By the end of the war he had been promoted to the rank of captain.
Soldiers, sailors, police officers etc have different ranks (NOT grades): ‘She joined the police force
in 1990 and quickly rose to the rank of sergeant.’
523
graduate
I graduated at Seoul National University with a degree in politics.
I graduated from Seoul National University with a degree in politics..
You graduate from a university: ‘She graduated from Hull University in 1994 with a first class
honours degree in chemistry.’
524
granted
We cannot take for granted that a computer system will never fail.
We cannot take it for granted that a computer system will never fail.
take it for granted (that ...) WITH it = assume that something is true or will happen: ‘She didn’t
ask me if I wanted to go. She just took it for granted.’
See also APPRECIATE 2
525
grave
I don’t have any grave problems.
I don’t have any serious problems.
Blackmail is a grave crime.
Blackmail is a serious crime.
grave = extremely serious and worrying, especially because someone’s life or happiness is in
danger: ‘The situation has become increasingly grave and war now seems inevitable.’ ‘The
shortage of food and medical supplies is giving rise to grave concern.’
We went to see the ‘Valley of the Kings’, where the grave of Tut-mah-Amun was
found.
We went to see the ‘Valley of the Kings’, where the tomb of Tut-mah-Amun was
found.
grave = a place in the ground where a dead person is put: ‘The coffin was slowly lowered into the
grave.’
tomb (pronounced /tuːm/) = a place where a dead person is put. A tomb is usually made of stone
and is above the ground: ‘Our first stop was the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.’
526
greatly
Living standards have improved greatly.
Living standards have greatly improved.
Living standards have improved enormously.
The children greatly cheered me up.
The children cheered me up a lot.
Greatly is usually placed in front of a main verb, especially in passive structures: ‘Your kind offer is
greatly appreciated.’ ‘Stories of panic on Wall Street have been greatly exaggerated.’
To emphasize the meaning of an active verb, use enormously, tremendously or (in informal styles)
a lot at the end of the clause: ‘In the last forty years education in China has changed enormously.’
527
group
The people of each group have to guess the word.
The people in each group have to guess the word.
the + noun + in a group: ‘The girls in my group all come from Italy.’
Note however member + of a group: ‘The members of my group took it in turns to take notes.’
528
ground
Turkey occupies about 40 per cent of our ground.
Turkey occupies about 40 per cent of our land/territory.
See Language Note on next page
They do not have enough food or ground to grow it on.
They do not have enough food or land to grow it on.
See Language Note on next page
Gradually the ground loses the ability to hold water.
Gradually the soil loses the ability to hold water.
My job is to analyse samples of ground.
My job is to analyse samples of soil.
See Language Note below
The school building is very old and the ground is very small.
The school building is very old and the grounds are very small.
See Language Note below
The school building is very old and the ground is very small.
The school building is very old and the grounds are very small.
See Language Note below
A shot rang out and one of the men fell on the ground.
A shot rang out and one of the men fell to the ground.
I fell on the ground, hoping that nobody had seen me.
I fell to the ground, hoping that nobody had seen me.
Use on the ground when you are thinking about position: ‘Someone had dropped one of their gloves on the ground.’ ‘We sat down on the ground just outside the cage.’ When you are thinking about downward movement or (violent) movement from a standing position, use to the ground: ‘The parachute failed to open and he plummeted to the ground.’ ‘The impact knocked him spinning to the ground.’ ‘They pushed him to the ground and grabbed his
wallet.’
529
grow
Many of these children grow in an atmosphere of violence.
Many of these children grow up in an atmosphere of violence.
grow = (1) (of children, animals, plants etc) develop or get bigger as part of a natural process:
‘Mary’s little boy grew four centimetres last year.’ ‘Orchids don’t grow in cold climates.’ (2) cause
plants, vegetables etc to do this by taking care of them: ‘In the back garden we grow onions,
potatoes and carrots.’
grow up = (of children) pass from childhood into maturity: ‘Of course I know him - we grew up
together in New York.’ ‘Tom wants to be a scientist when he grows up.’
Some parents need to be taught how to grow their children.
Some parents need to be taught how to bring up their children.
bring up (or raise) = look after children until they are old enough to leave home, teaching them
how to behave and what to think about the world: ‘He was brought up to believe that men and
women are equal.’
530
grow up
The country’s GNP is growing up very quickly.
The country’s GNP is growing very quickly.
grow = increase (in number, volume, cost etc): ‘The population is expected to grow by 20% over
the next ten years.’
Calcium helps your bones to grow up.
Calcium helps your bones to grow.
With a garden you can grow up your own vegetables.
With a garden you can grow your own vegetables.
See Note at GROW 1
531
grown-up
These films are too violent not only for children but also for grown-up people.
These films are too violent not only for children but also for grown-ups.
Instead of using grown-up person/people, use grown-up as a noun: ‘Grown-ups are so boring! All
they want to do is talk!’ Note that grownup is used mainly by children. The more common word is
adult.
532
guarantee
May I remind you that the cassette recorder is still in guarantee.
May I remind you that the cassette recorder is still under guarantee.
under guarantee (NOT in): ‘The watch was still under guarantee so they repaired it free of
charge.’
533
guidance
I greatly appreciate all your help and guidances.
I greatly appreciate all your help and guidance.
Guidance is an uncountable noun: ‘The council provides guidance and support for students
wishing to study abroad.’
534
guilty
The jury charged the defendant guilty.
The jury found the defendant guilty.
He was tried and judged guilty of murder.
He was tried and found guilty of murder.
find sb guilty/innocent: ‘Despite the flimsy evidence, the jury found her guilty.’ ‘The accused was
found guilty and sentenced to five years’ imprisonment. ‘
They feel guilty of neglecting their duty.
They feel guilty about neglecting their duty.
A lot of women feel guilty to leave their children alone or with another person.
A lot of women feel guilty about leaving their children alone or with another
person.
(be) guilty of a crime or doing something wrong: ‘The jury found the defendant guilty of murder.’
‘He was guilty of driving without a licence or insurance.’
(feel) guilty about (doing) sth = ashamed: ‘I still feel guilty about not visiting her while she was in
hospital.’
535
gymnastic
See CLASSIC 2
See SHOOT 2
I took up gymnastic when I was at school.
I took up gymnastics when I was at school.
Gymnastic (WITHOUT -s) is an adjective: ‘Her gymnastic ability was recognized at a very early age.’
The noun is gymnastics (WITH –s): ‘Her career in international gymnastics began at the age of twelve.’
536
habit
It is a habit in Japan to take off your shoes before entering a house.
It is a custom in Japan to take off your shoes before entering a house.
See Language Note at MANNER
Once one has taken the habit, smoking is very difficult to give up.
Once one has acquired the habit, smoking is very difficult to give up.
Acquire/adopt/develop/get into a habit (NOT take): ‘He’s developed the unfortunate habit of biting his fingernails.’
537
hair
He had a black hair and very clear eyes.
He had black hair and very clear eyes.
Her beautiful blond hairs were shining in the sun.
Her beautiful blond hair was shining in the sun.
When you mean ‘a single hair’ or ‘several individual hairs’, hair is a countable noun: ‘There was a
long black hair in my soup.’ ‘Stand still and I’ll brush the hairs off your jacket.’
When you mean ‘all the hair on a person’s head’, hair is uncountable: ‘Where do you go to have
your hair cut?’
538
half
He agreed to give her the half of the money.
He agreed to give her half of the money.
Do not use the before half except when talking about a particular half.
Compare: ‘He spends half the week playing golf.’ ‘During the second half ,of the concert I could
hardly stay awake.’
We will stay in Bangkok for two and half days.
We will stay in Bangkok for two and a half days.
Number + and a half (NOT and half): ‘She can swim two Lengths of the pool in four and a half
minutes.’
We have a break of one and a half hour for lunch,
We have a break of one and a half hours for lunch.
number greater than one + plural form: ‘three and a half minutes’, ‘twelve and a half miles’
Note the alternative: ‘We have a one and a half hour break for lunch.’
539
halt
Don’t stand up until the bus gets to a halt.
Don’t stand up until the bus comes to a halt.
come to a halt (NOT get): ‘The car that we’d been following came to a sudden halt outside the bank.’
540
hand
In the other hand, many women choose to go out to work.
On the other hand, many women choose to go out to work.
on the one hand ... , on the other hand ... , (NOT in, at): ‘On the other hand, don’t forget that
these machines are expensive.’
The future of millions of people should not be in the hand of one man.
The future of millions of people should not be in the hands of one man.
in the hands of (plural) = controlled by: ‘All the political power is in the hands of the government.’
He came out of the bathroom with a towel in the hand.
He came out of the bathroom with a towel in his hand.
in my/them/heir etc hand/s (NOT the): ‘You can’t argue when someone has a gun in their hand.’
I learned how to run a house and handle with small children.
I learned how to run a house and handle small children.
That is surely not the way to handle with something so fragile.
That is surely not the way to handle something so fragile.
handle sb/sth (WITHOUT with): ‘We’ve decided to let our lawyer handle the matter.’ ‘Be careful
how you handle the vase it’s worth a small fortune.’
Compare: ‘This is a highly sensitive issue and needs to be handled with tact and diplomacy.’
‘FRAGILE - HANDLE WITH CARE.’
541
happen
It happened something very strange.
Something very strange happened.
I was afraid it might happen to me something terrible.
I was afraid that something terrible might happen to me.
It didn’t happen what the teacher had predicted.
What the teacher had predicted didn’t happen.
The subject of happen comes in front of the verb, in the usual way: ‘Accidents happen every day along this stretch of the road.’ ‘Something unforeseen has happened.’ ; When you use it (preparatory subject) before happen, the sentence continues with a that clause: ‘It happened that we had both booked seats on the same flight.’ (= By chance we had both booked ... )
One day happened something very sad.
One day something very sad happened.
Then happened something that made me very angry.
Then something happened that made me very angry.
The subject of the sentence comes in front of happen (NOT after it): ‘Something unexpected has happened.’ ‘Something has happened that I think you ought to know about.’
I don’t know what’s happened with him. He should be here by now.
I don’t know what’s happened to him. He should be here by now.
Something happens to someone/something (NOT with): ‘What’s happened to the clock? It’s not working.’
542
hardly
I tried hardly to remember where I had parked the car.
I tried hard to remember where I had parked the car.
It was raining hardly and we all got wet.
It was raining hard and we all got wet.
Society shouldn’t punish these people too hardly.
Society shouldn’t punish these people too hard/severely.
hardly = scarcely; almost not: ‘It was hardly raining at all.’ ‘I could hardly believe my eyes.’ ; hard = (1) with a lot of effort: ‘If you work hard, you’re bound to pass.’ (2) heavily or severely: ‘The authorities are coming down hard on tax evasion.’ Before a past participle, use severely for this
meaning: ‘If they are caught, they will be severely punished.’
It was so dark that we hardly could see.
It was so dark that we could hardly see.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
There were hardly no trees left, just bare rocky land.
There were hardly any trees left, just bare rocky land.
When we arrived at the hotel, we couldn’t hardly believe our eyes.
When we arrived at the hotel, we could hardly believe our eyes.
See Language Note at NOT
543
have
After buying the food, he had not any money left.
After buying the food, he didn’t have any money left.
When have is-used as a main verb, the negative and question forms are made with do: ‘I didn’t have any breakfast this morning.’ ; Note the alternative: ‘After buying the food, he hadn’t got any money left.’
I stayed at home yesterday because I was having a bad cold.
I stayed at home yesterday because I had a bad cold.
See Language Note at CONTAIN
I don’t think that I have to say anything more, so I’ll, stop now and take this letter to the post office.
I don’t think that I have anything more to say, so I’ll stop now and take this letter to the post office,
have to do sth = must do something: ‘My train leaves in ten minutes so I’ll have to go now.’ ; have sth to do = have something that you need or intend to do: ‘I have two more letters to write.’
544
have got
He has got white hair, big ears and blue eyes.
He’s got white hair, big ears and blue eyes.
I have not got a van and so I can’t move my things by myself.
I haven’t got a van and so I can’t move my things by myself.
The different forms of have got are nearly always contracted when they are spoken or written: ‘I’ve got two sisters.’ ‘She’s got big brown eyes.’ ‘He wanted to know if I’d got any money.’
It all depends on whether the applicant has got suitable qualifications.
It all depends on whether the applicant has suitable qualifications.
Have got is used only in informal styles (mainly in British English). In other styles, use have. 
544
Have to
Some wives earn a lot of money and so their husbands haven’t to work.
Some wives earn a lot of money and so their husbands don’t have to work.
He was pleased that he had not to look after the baby.
He was pleased that he didn’t have to look after the baby.
The negative and question forms of have to are usually made with do: ‘I don’t have to leave just yet.’ ‘Do you really have to go now?’
545
he
A child is bound to suffer if he thinks that no one loves him.
Children are bound to suffer if they think that no one loves them.
See Language Note below
he or she, he/she
When anyone reads these lines, he or she will think that the writer is very sad.
Anyone reading these lines will think that the writer is very sad.
A criminal should be punished when he/she is caught.
Criminals should be punished when they are caught.
If a friend came to stay with me, I would give him or her a souvenir of Barcelona so
that he or she would have something to remember his or her visit.
If a friend came to stay with me, I would give them a souvenir of Barcelona so
that they would have something to remember their visit.
See Language Note below
546
headache
If I drink coffee, I get headache.
If I drink coffee, I get a headache.
Headache is a countable noun: ‘I woke with a terrible headache.’ ‘My wife suffers from headaches
547
health
I hope this letter finds you in a good health.
I hope this letter finds you in good health.
Health is an uncountable noun: ‘Worry can affect your health.’"Nothing in life is more important
than good health.’
They all sat down and heard my story.
They all sat down and listened to my story.
like hearing tapes and watching English films.
I like listening to tapes and watching English films.
listen (to) = hear and pay attention (to): ‘He listened carefully to every word I said.’ Compare: ‘I
could hear two people talking but I didn’t listen to what they were saying.’
548
heavy
Her car was involved in a heavy accident.
Her car was involved in a serious accident.
All the prisoners had committed heavy crimes.
All the prisoners had committed serious crimes.
a serious accident/crime/illness etc (NOT heavy)
549
height
She is a medium-height smartly-dressed woman.
She is a smartly-dressed woman of medium height.
The police wish to interview an average height man with long black hair.
The police wish to interview a man of average height with long black hair.
of medium/average height: The escaped prisoner is of medium-height and was last seen wearing
a green tracksuit.’
550
help
The girl’s parents couldn’t help to worry about her.
The girl’s parents couldn’t help worrying about her.
can’t/couldn’t help doing sth: ‘I couldn’t help laughing when I saw what he was doing.’
Remember to call me if you need a help.
Remember to call me if you need help.
Help is usually an uncountable noun: ‘Do you want some help?’ ‘He doesn’t like asking for help.’
Note however the phrase be a (great/tremendous) help: ‘Thanks for coming and looking after the
children. You’ve been a great help.’ ‘It would be a great help if you could just address all the
envelopes.’
551
here
The weather in here is very cold.
The weather here is very cold.
The people in here believe in Hinduism.
The people here believe in Hinduism.
Do not use in before here/there when you mean ‘in this country or region’: ‘I’m having a problem
with the food here.’ ‘Groceries here are much cheaper than in Japan.’
You use in here when you mean ‘in this building/room/container etc’: ‘Nobody is allowed to come
in here except authorized personnel.’ ‘I leave most of my books in here’.
She comes to here every afternoon to feed the birds.
She comes here every afternoon to feed the birds
Do not use to before here/there unless you are indicating or pointing to something: ‘When the
tide comes in, the water reaches right up to here.’
You do not need to bring a coat because here is warm.
You do not need to bring a coat because it’s warm here.
Here is very different.
It’s very different here.
When you are describing a situation, begin clause with it (NOT here): ‘It’s raining here.’
552
high
Beauvais is very proud of having the highest cathedral in Europe.
Beauvais is very proud of having the tallest cathedral in Europe.
Smoke pours out of the high chimneys all day long.
Smoke pours out of the tall chimneys all day long.
Use high to describe something that is a long way above the ground (or whose top is a long way
above the ground): ‘The rooms on the ground floor have very high ceilings.’ ‘The top shelf was too
high for me to reach.’ ‘The high wall made it impossible for prisoners to escape.’
Use tall (NOT high) to describe people, animals, trees, plants and things which are narrow and
above average height: ‘Most of the tall trees had been cut down.’ ‘I’d like to marry someone tall
with a sense of humour.’ He’s almost six feet tall.’
553
hinder
His health hindered him to do any hard work.
His health prevented him from doing any hard work.
Nobody can hinder people having fun.
Nobody can prevent people from having fun.
hinder sth = cause progress, development, growth etc to slow down or stop: ‘Higher interest rates
could hinder economic growth.’ ‘Heavy rains hindered the expedition’s progress.’
prevent (or stop) sb from doing sth = make it impossible for someone to do something: ‘He
removed the ignition key to prevent them from leaving.’
Capital punishment aims to hinder people from committing such crimes.
Capital punishment aims to deter people from committing such crimes.
deter sb (from doing sth) = persuade someone not to do something: ‘The threat of imprisonment
has failed to deter these young offenders.’
554
hire
I’m hiring a small house near the university.
I’m renting a small house near the university.
In British English you hire a suit, meeting hall, bicycle, fishing rod etc. You obtain the use of these
things, usually for a short period, by making a single payment: ‘Why buy a wedding dress when
you can hire one?’ ‘Herr Platzer showed us where we could hire bicycles.’ You rent a house, shop,
apartment, television etc, usually for a longer period, by making a series of payments: ‘There are
plenty of offices to rent in the town centre.’ When talking about cars, you can use rent or hire:
‘There’s usually a place at the airport where you can hire/rent a car.’
In American English you always rent something (not hire), regardless of what it is or the length of
the arrangement.
555
historic
She likes reading historic novels.
She likes reading historical novels.
historic = (1) very important in history: ‘a historic voyage’, ‘a historic decision’ (2) having a long
history: ‘a historic tradition’, ‘a historic building’
historical = (1) about or based upon people who actually lived or events that actually happened:
‘Historical records suggest that the prince was fully aware of the murders.’ (2) connected with or
found in history: ‘a diary of great historical interest’, ‘a historical document’, ‘for historical
reasons’.
He likes reading historic books.
He likes reading history books.
We spent the afternoon at the historic museum.
We spent the afternoon at the history museum.
a history book/lesson/museum etc = a book/lesson/museum etc that deals with the subject of
history: ‘Our history teacher next term is Mr Young.’
556
historical
We shall be taking you to see several interesting historical places.
We shall be taking you to see several interesting historic places.
See Note at HISTORIC 1
557
hit
Turning round, I hit a vase which broke into several pieces.
Turning round, I knocked over a vase which broke into several pieces.
knock over = hit something by accident so that it falls from a standing position: ‘The cat jumped
up onto the table and knocked over a full glass of red wine.’
I was so terrified that I hit and kicked them with all my might.
I was so terrified that I punched and kicked them with all my might.
punch and kick (NOT hit and kick): ‘The boy on the ground was punching and kicking to defend
himself.’
558
hold
One of the men walked over to me and held my bag.
One of the men walked over to me and took hold of my bag.
As soon as she saw the mouse, she held a knife.
As soon as she saw the mouse, she picked up a knife.
hold = have something in your hand/hands/arms etc: ‘I’d been holding the baby for nearly an hour
and my right arm was getting tired.’
get/take hold of = put your fingers or hands around something and hold it: ‘Quick! Get hold of the
rope! The boat’s drifting away.’
pick up = put your fingers around something and take it: ‘He bent down to pick up the glove that
she’d dropped.’
559
hole
He didn’t want us to see the hole on his sock.
He didn’t want us to see the hole in his sock.
The yacht hit the side of the ferry and made a hole in it.
The yacht hit the side of the ferry and made a hole in it.
(make) a hole in sth (NOT on): ‘The bucket had a hole in the bottom.’
560
holiday
She said she was going on holidays to France.
She said she was going on holiday to France.
I’ve just got back from holidays.
I’ve just got back from holiday.
Speakers of British English use (be/go) on holiday, (return/get back) from holiday (WITHOUT -s):
‘I met her while I was on holiday in Switzerland.’ ‘We’re supposed to be going on holiday with
them.’
The plural form holidays is usually used with them/my/your etc: ‘Where are you going for your
holidays this year?’ ‘During the long summer holidays some students get a part-time job.’
Speakers of American English use (be/go) on vacation etc.
The children stay up late when they are in their holidays.
The children stay up late when they are on holiday.
In those days we couldn’t afford to go in holidays.
In those days we couldn’t afford to go on holiday.
(be/go) on holiday (NOT in (your) holidays): ‘Mark’s on holiday this week.’ ‘On holiday I just like
to relax and read a book or two.’
It’s time you made a holiday.
It’s time you had a holiday.
At Easter a lot of pensioners go to Lugano to make a holiday.
At Easter a lot of pensioners go to Lugano to have a holiday.
See Language Note at DO
561
home
As soon as I arrived at home, I knew that something was wrong.
As soon as I arrived home, I knew that something was wrong.
When the examinations are over. I’m going to home.
When the examinations are over, I’m going home.
arrive/go/return home (WITHOUT at/to): ‘Let’s go home and have something to eat.’ ‘We arrived
home at six o’clock.’
Compare: ‘We arrived at their house at six o’clock.’
I have to stay in my home to look after our baby.
I have to stay at home to look after our baby.
We decided to spend the weekend in our home.
We decided to spend the weekend at home.
at home (NOT in my/our etc home): ‘I’m fed up with being at home all the time.’
We left my uncle’s home at ten o’clock.
We left my uncle’s house at ten o’clock.
Why don’t you stay in Joan’s home?
Why don’t you stay at Joan’s house?
Leave/stay/go home BUT leave/stay at/go to sb’s house
Compare: ‘Shall we go home or shall we go to your house?’
If they want to go outside the home, they have to ask their husbands.
If they want to go out, they have to ask their husbands.
When someone leaves their house for a short while, they go out: ‘I’d like to go out but I’m too
tired.’
Saudi women were not allowed to work outside their home.
Saudi women were not allowed to go out to work.
See Language Note at OCCUPATION
My parents don’t want me to live out of home.
My parents don’t want me to live away from home.
(live/move) away from home (NOT out of home): ‘I’ve been living away from home for almost
two years.’
562
homework
In my opinion, women who go out to work don’t have enough time to do the
homework.
In my opinion, women who go out to work don’t have enough time to do the
housework.
homework = work that a teacher gives a pupil to do at home
housework = all the jobs that have to be done regularly to keep a house or flat clean and tidy
Have you done your homeworks?
Have you done your homework?
Homework is an uncountable noun: ‘We’re given a lot of homework at the weekend.’
Our teacher wanted to know why we hadn’t made our homework.
Our teacher wanted to know why we hadn’t done our homework.
See Language Note at DO
563
honestly
Honestly, we didn’t play very well in the final.
To be honest, we didn’t play very well in the final.
Honestly, I don’t really like her husband.
To tell you the truth, I don’t really like her husband.
Use honestly when you want someone to believe that what you are saying is really true: ‘I
honestly don’t mind where we go, as long as we go somewhere.’ ‘I was going to give it back to
you, honestly.’
To show someone that you are about to tell them your own true feelings about something (especially feelings that you usually keep secret), use to be honest (with you), in all honesty, to tell (you) the truth, (quite) frankly or to be frank: ‘In all honesty, I’ll be glad when the children are back at school.’ ‘To tell you the truth, I don’t think that the marriage will last long.
I honestly say that I haven’t seen anyone work so hard.
I can honestly say that I haven’t seen anyone work so hard.
I can honestly say (WITH can): ‘I can honestly say this is the worst fire , I’ve ever seen.’
564
hope
I hope that one day things would change.
I hope that one day things will change.
I hope that you would think seriously about this matter.
I hope that you will think seriously about this matter.
You hope that someone will do something or that something will happen (NOT would): ‘I hope
that you won’t be offended if I don’t come.
I hope you to have a good time at the party.
I hope you have a good time at the party.
When there is a change of subject after hope, use hope + that clause (NOT hope + to-v): ‘She
hopes (that) you’ll come again.’ We hope (that) your parents enjoyed their stay.’
When there is no change of subject, use hope + to -v (or hope + that clause): ‘She hopes to come
again.’ ‘she hopes that she will come again).’ (=she hopes that she will come again) ‘They hope to
visit the Istana.’ (=they hope (that) they will visit the Istana)
I deeply hope that there will never be another war.
I sincerely hope that there will never be another war.
sincerely hope (NOT deeply): ‘I sincerely hope that you will understand why we cannot come after
all.’
Are you still unhappy? I don’t hope so.
Are you still unhappy? I hope not.
When you wish that something previously mentioned is not true, use I hope not: ‘Do you have to
have another medical examination?’ ‘I hope not.’
565
hopeless
I think the students will feel hopeless because they have already tried their best and failed.
I think the students will feel disheartened because they have already tried their best and failed.
Hopeless is usually used to describe a situation, not a person: ‘The firemen tried to get the blaze under control, but it was hopeless.’ When you say that a person is hopeless, you mean that they are very bad at something: ‘He’s hopeless at remembering names.’ ; To describe someone who feels that they have little or no chance of success, especially because they have already experienced failure or disappointment, use dispirited, dejected, disheartened, discouraged, despondent or demoralized: ‘Having lost ten matches in a row, the team felt completely demoralized.’
566
horizon
The tiny light looked like a star in the horizon.
The tiny light looked like a star on the horizon.
on the horizon (NOT in): ‘The sun was setting on the horizon.’
Further education enables you to broaden your horizon.
Further education enables you to broaden your horizons.
your horizons (WITH -s) = the range of things that you are involved or interested in: ‘As a
politician, his horizons extend no further than the next election.’
567
hospital
I’ve been in the hospital for the last five weeks.
I’ve been in hospital for the last five weeks.
See Note at SCHOOL 1
I want to go and see my grandmother who is ill at hospital.
I want to go and see my grandmother who is ill in hospital.
It gave me the opportunity to work at a hospital.
It gave me the opportunity to work in a hospital.
in (a) hospital (NOT at): ‘I didn’t like being in hospital.’
568
hour
It was a twelve hours trip.
It was a twelve-hour trip.
See Language Note at HUNDRED
569
household
At the weekend they have to do all the household.
At the weekend they have to do all the housework.
Some women get no help with the household work.
Some women get no help with the housework.
household = all the people living together in a house or flat: ‘Be quiet or you’ll wake the whole
household.’
housework = all the jobs that have to be done regularly to keep a house or flat clean and tidy: ‘My
husband and I share all the housework between us.’
570
housekeeper
Most Korean women are housekeepers.
Most Korean women are housewives.
housekeeper = a person who does the cooking and keeps a house clean, usually paid by the
owners of the house: ‘We can’t afford to employ a housekeeper.’
housewife = a married woman who does not have a full-time job outside the house: ‘She doesn’t
want to give up her job and become a housewife.’
571
housework
I do all the houseworks myself.
I do all the housework myself.
Housework is an uncountable noun: ‘There’s always lots of housework to be done.’
572
how
Could you describe how the driver looks like?
Could you describe what the driver looks like?
How is Christmas in France?
What is Christmas like in France?
How do the new shoes feel like?
What do the new shoes feel like?
When you ask for or give a description of someone or something, use what ... like (NOT how):
‘What’s your new English teacher like?’ ‘This drawing gives you an idea of what the new shopping
complex will look like.’ ‘What does it feel like to win an Olympic gold medal?’ ‘What do the apples
taste like?’
How do you think of the hotel?
What do you think of the hotel?
Should I tell him the truth? How do you think?
Should I tell him the truth? What do you think?
When you ask someone for their opinion, use what ... think (NOT how): ‘What do you think of Ann’s new car?’
Their decision will depend on how good is your offer.
Their decision will depend on how good your offer is.
Please let me know how much is the postage.
Please let me know how much the postage.
In a subordinate clause, the subject and verb do NOT change places. ; Compare: ‘How much did she pay for it?’ ‘Do you know how much she paid for it?’
I must tell you how I was pleased to receive a letter from you.
I must tell you how pleased I was to receive a letter from you.
I keep telling myself how I am lucky to have such wonderful children.
I keep telling myself how lucky I am to have such wonderful children.
how + adjective/adverb + subject + verb: ‘I can’t describe how sad I felt.’ ‘How clumsy you are!’ ‘I was amazed at how fast she was driving.’
We all know how terrible disease AIDS is.
We all know what a terrible disease AlDS is.
What + noun phrase (NOT how): ‘I’ve been told what a fine chess player you are.’ ‘What a stupid thing to say!’
111
how do you do
Dear Mary... Hi! How do you do?
Dear Mary... Hi! How are you?
How do you do? is used in spoken English as a polite way of greeting a stranger or someone you
do not know very well. It is not used in written English.
How are you? is used in spoken and written English as an informal greeting.
573
how much
I realized how much different everybody’s personality is.
I realized how different everybody’s personality is.
I just can’t tell you how much I’m sorry.
I just can’t tell you how sorry I am.
how + adjective/adverb (WITHOUT much): ‘Did you notice how sad he looked?’
574
however
I don’t like shopping however I’II come with you.
I don’t like shopping but I’II come with you.
Unlike but, however is an adverb (NOT a conjunction) and is used only in formal styles: ‘I was
hoping to deal with this matter quickly. However, the situation is more complicated than I
thought.’ ‘The newspapers always carried stories of new advances and glorious victories. In
reality, however, the war was not going well.’
See also NEVERTHELESS, THEREFORE 1
575
huge
Meno Park in Central Tokyo is very huge.
Meno Park in Central Tokyo is (absolutely) huge.
See Note at VERY 2
576
human
The human’s brain works better in the morning.
The human brain works better in the morning.
Human is mainly used as an adjective: ‘We should accept the fact that human judgment fallible.’
Compare: ‘A person’s brain works better in the morning.’
577
humid
He was living in a cold basement flat which had humid walls and almost no furniture.
He was living in a cold basement flat which had damp walls and almost no furniture.
See Note at DAMP
578
humour
Bill looks angry. Is he in a bad homour?
Bill looks angry. Is he in a bad mood?
Sometimes when I’m in a good humour, I like to cook something special.
Sometimes when I’m in a good mood, I like to cook something special.
Your mood is the way you feel (about life) at a particular time: ‘Doctors believe that tiredness
affects your mood and behaviour.’ ‘George is in a bad mood this morning. Has someone upset
him?’
Humour is used with a similar meaning, but only in formal or literary styles: ‘Steven was deep in
bad humour.’
579
hurry
I was in hurry to catch the train.
I was in a hurry to catch the train.
(be) in a hurry (to do sth): ‘I was in such a hurry that I nearly knocked him over.’
I and some of my classmates publish a monthly magazine.
Some of my classmates and I publish a monthly magazine.
Someone and I (NOT I and someone): ‘My husband and I belong to a diving club.’
She is one year younger than I.
She is one year younger than I am.
She is one year younger than me.
In comparisons use than me/him/her/us/them (object pronouns) or than I am/he is/she is/we
are/they are: ‘You’re stronger than him.’ ‘You’re stronger than he is.’
580
idea
I had the brilliant idea to invite Sonia to my party.
I had the brilliant idea of inviting Sonia to my party.
the idea of doing sth: ‘She doesn’t like the idea of staying in the house on her own.’
Compare: ‘It was a good idea to invite Sonia to your party.’
581
if
If it will rain, I’ll come and meet you in the car.
If it rains, I’II come and meet you in the car.
See Language Note at WILL
582
ill
See DEPEND 3
See so 1
I am being trained to look after ill children.
I am being trained to look after sick children.
ill (= sick) is usually used after a verb: ‘I told the doctor that felt ill.’ ‘His father is seriously ill in
hospital.’
Before a noun, use sick: ‘Your father is a very sick man.’
He wanted to be with his son who was badly ill.
He wanted to be with his son who was seriously ill.
seriously ill (NOT badly): ‘So far three people have died and five more are seriously ill.’
583
imaginary
People tend to become less imaginary as they grow older.
People tend to become less imaginative as they grow older.
imaginary = not existing in real life but only in someone’s mind: ‘This new novel takes the reader
on an imaginary journey into space.’ ‘The little boy kept firing an imaginary gun at me.’
imaginative = having or showing a powerful imagination: ‘She is one of the most imaginative
designers of her generation.’ ‘His paintings tend to be highly imaginative.’
584
imitate
I think I shall imitate my friend and join the club too.
I think I shall copy my friend and join the club too.
imitate = do something in exactly the same way that someone else does it: ‘Have you heard him
trying to imitate an Englishman speaking French?’ ‘He walks as if he is trying to imitate Donald
Duck.’
copy = do the same thing as someone else: ‘As soon as I began cycling to work, people started
copying me.’ ‘His little sister wants to copy him all the time.’
585
immediately
‘Let me know immediately she will arrive,’ he shouted.
‘Let me know immediately she arrives,’ he shouted.
See Language Note at WILL
At the airport he began immediately taking photographs.
At the airport he immediately began taking photographs.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
586
immigrate
Some of those who can’t find a job decide to immigrate.
Some of those who can’t find a job decide to emigrate.
We’re planning to immigrate to the United States next year.
We’re planning to emigrate to the United States next year.
The verb immigrate (= enter a foreign country and make your home there) is seldom used. Instead
people tend to use immigrant and immigration (nouns): ‘When jobs became scarce, the number
of new immigrants suddenly decreased.’ ‘Immigration has decreased in recent years.’
emigrate = leave your own country and make your home in another one: ‘His parents emigrated
from Scotland to Canada in 1933.’
587
impact
I doubt whether it will cause an impact on the readers.
I doubt whether it will have an impact on the readers.
See Language Note at DO
588
important
He said that money was not important for him.
He said that money was not important to him.
If you care or think about something a lot, it is important to you (NOT for): ‘The watch is very
important to me because it belonged to my grandmother.’ Compare: ‘English is very important
career.’
589
impression
See THING 1, 2
I decided to change my impression and had all my hair cut short.
I decided to change my image and had all my hair cut short.
impression = an opinion or feeling that you have about someone or something, especially after
just a short time: ‘My impression is that she would make an excellent teacher.’ ‘He gives the
impression of being someone you can trust.’
image = the general picture that you want people to have in their minds when they think of you or
your company, organization etc: ‘After all the bad publicity, the company needs to improve its
image.’
My first impression about Californians was very positive.
My first impression of Californians was very positive.
impression of sb/sth: ‘They went back to Japan with very different impressions of what England
was like.’
He wanted to make a good impression to his girlfriend.
He wanted to make a good impression on his girlfriend.
make an impression on sb: ‘His first priority was to make a favourable impression on the prison
warden.’
590
impulse
I hope your trip will provide impulse for the essay you will have to write when you get back.
I hope your trip will provide inspiration for the essay you will have to write when you get back.
impulse = a sudden desire to do something: ‘I had a sudden impulse to walk out of the classroom and never return.’ ‘It’s unwise to act on impulse.’
inspiration = (a source of) creative energy: ‘The inspiration for these early poems came from his relationship with Lucy Potter.’
591
in
In 1st July we went to Italy by car.
On 1st July we went to Italy by car.
I made an appointment for the following Friday. In that day I got up early so as to
have plenty of time.
I made an appointment for the following Friday. On that day I got up early so as
to have plenty of time.
See Language Note at TIME
I haven’t seen any good films in this year.
I haven’t seen any good films this year.
There was almost a nuclear disaster in last year.
There was almost a nuclear disaster last year.
We intend to visit the north of England in this summer.
We intend to visit the north of England this summer.
See Language Note at TIME
We have 4 classes in a day.
We have 4 classes a day.
They usually work 39 hours in a week.
They usually work 39 hours a week.
Expressions of frequency, speed, duration etc do not contain in: ‘The shop is open six days a week.’
‘He visits his father three times a year.’ ‘Bananas cost fifty pence a pound. the hospital at ninety
miles an hour.’
I noticed that nobody cried in the funeral.
I noticed that nobody cried at the funeral.
I’m sorry that I can’t be there in the wedding.
I’m sorry that I can’t be there at the wedding.
(be) at an event (Such as a wedding, party, meeting etc NOT in): ‘I didn’t expect to see his ex-wife
at the party.’ ‘Will Dr Sirinanda be at the conference.’
I’m a student in the University of Jordan.
I’m a student at the University of Jordan.
For the last year I have been studying in the British Council.
For the last year I have been studying at the British Council.
(be/study/be a student/teach etc) at (a) college/university etc (NOT in/of): ‘His wife teaches
chemistry at Bristol University.’ ‘I’m a Hotel Management student at Henley College.’
592
incapable
Most small children are incapable to sit still for more than five minutes.
Most small children are incapable of sitting still for more than five minutes.
incapable of doing sth: ‘James is incapable of staying awake after ten o’clock.’
593
include
One of the bottles including the virus had been stolen.
One of the bottles containing the virus had been stolen.
Classes should include no more than 20 students.
Classes should contain no more than 20 students.
See Language Note on next page
Milk also includes vitamins.
Milk also contains vitamins.
See Language Note on next page
The poem includes just two short verses.
The poem consists of just two short verses.
Education in Jordan includes three stages.
Education in Jordan consists of three stages.
See Language Note on next page
I am including a photograph of myself.
I am enclosing a photograph of myself.
See Language Note on next page
594
increase
I’d like to increase my English.
I’d like to improve my English.
We can increase the economic situation by working harder.
We can improve the economic situation by working harder.
increase = become or make (something) greater in amount, number or degree: ‘The government
has increased taxes.’ ‘As their profits increase, the companies expand.’ ‘The number of words in
the language is increasing all the time.’
improve = become or make (something) better: ‘Efforts are being made to improve the quality of
the medical services.’
The government is trying to increase the level of education.
The government is trying to raise the level of education.
In Hong Kong the standard of living has increased sharply.
In Hong Kong the standard of living has risen sharply.
When you are talking about the level or standard of something, use raise/rise (NOT increase):
‘The standard of living continues to rise.’
The increase in crime is accelerating.
There has been an increase of the number of cars.
There has been an increase in the number of cars.
increase in sth (NOT of): ‘There’s been a sudden increase in political activity.’ ‘We can expect
further increases in the cost of living.’
595
indeed
As for his new novel, I think it’s worth reading indeed.
As for his new novel, I think it’s certainly worth reading.
He claims that many young people do not want jobs but this is indeed not the case.
He claims that many young people do not want jobs but this is certainly not the
case.
Indeed is used (1) to introduce a statement that strengthens a previous point: ‘We don’t need any
more high street banks. Indeed, there are too many already.’ (2) to show that you agree with a
previous statement or opinion: ‘Cancer research has indeed come a long way in recent years.’
To strengthen a point or opinion that has not been mentioned before, use certainly or definitely:
‘He doesn’t treat his staff very well but he certainly knows how to make money.’ ‘The first essay is
excellent but the second one definitely doesn’t deserve more than a ‘C’ grade.
I’m afraid that I won’t be able to come to your wedding. Indeed, I’m giving a lecture
on that day.
I’m afraid that I won’t be able to come to your wedding. As it happens, I’m giving
a lecture on that day.
To show that something that you are about to mention is connected by chance with something
you have mentioned before, use as it happens or it so happens that: ‘We’ve just seen a really
beautiful house and it so happens that it’s for sale.’
Secondary students are under great pressure indeed.
Secondary students are under very great pressure indeed.
We all had a good time indeed.
We all had a very good time indeed.
very + adjective + noun + Indeed: ‘I thought it was a very clever answer indeed.’
very + adjective/adverb + indeed: ‘The quality of the recording is very good indeed.’ ‘Some of the
students did very well.’
America is a paradise for young people indeed.
America is indeed a paradise for young people.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
596
independent
Nowadays young people want to be independent from their parents.
Nowadays young people want to be independent of their parents.
independent of sb/sth (NOT from): ‘Good students soon become independent of their teachers.’
597
indoor
As it was raining we decided to stay indoor.
As it was raining we decided to stay indoors.
Indoor (WITHOUT s) is an adjective: ‘an indoor tennis court’, ‘indoor athletics’.
Indoors (WITH s) is an adverb: ‘I don’t like spending the whole day indoors.’
598
indoors
Their new house even has an indoors swimming pool.
Their new house even has an indoor swimming pool.
See Note at INDOOR
599
industrious
The South has fewer industrious areas.
The South has fewer industrial areas.
Industrious = hard-working: ‘Neil is indeed a quiet student, but you won’t find anyone more
industrious.’
industrial = having or connected with major industries’: We visited some of the country’s main
industrial areas.’ ‘The economy has been hit by a series of industrial disputes.’
600
industry
The biggest industries in Jakobsberg are Philips and IBM.
The biggest companies in Jakobsberg are Philips and IBM.
See Language Note below
Many factories have been closed because of the recession.
There are car industries all over the place.
There are car factories/plants all over the place.
See Language Note above
They are demanding that all the nuclear industries are shut down.
They are demanding that all the nuclear plants are shut down.
See Language Note above
Another thing that education has changed is the industry.
Another thing that education has changed is industry.
The industry as a whole must become more environmentally friendly.
Industry as a whole must become more environmentally friendly.
When industry means all industries seen together as one thing. it is an uncountable noun: ‘She
can’t decide whether she wants a career in banking or in industry.’
601
infancy
Mr Fox had a very difficult infancy.
Mr Fox had a very difficult childhood.
Infancy (= the period when a child is very young) is used mainly in formal and technical styles: ‘In those days, large numbers of children died in infancy.’ ; To refer to the period when someone is a child, use childhood: ‘The old photographs brought back memories of my childhood.’
602
infant
I had to stay at home and look after my infants.
I had to stay at home and look after my children.
Infant (= a baby or very young child) is used mainly in literary and technical styles: ‘The infant,
cradled in Mariam’s arms, began to cry.’ ‘There are clear differences in temperament and speed of
learning among infants at this early stage.’
603
inferior
They still think that women are inferior than men.
They still think that women are inferior to men.
Inferior/superior to (NOT than): ‘To suggest that women doctors are in some way inferior to their male counterparts is scandalous.’ ‘Why do they think they’re so superior to the rest of us?’
604
influence
These drugs have no influence on the virus.
These drugs have no effect on the virus.
I asked him not to keep disturbing me, but it had no influence.
I asked him not to keep disturbing me, but it had no effect.
If someone (or something) has an Influence, they help to shape the way that someone or
something develops: ‘D.W. Griffith had an enormous influence on the motion picture industry.’
If something has an effect, it causes a change to take place in someone or something: ‘The war
had a disastrous effect on the economy.’
America has given a tremendous influence to Japanese society.
America has had a tremendous influence on Japanese society.
have an influence on sb/sth (NOT give ... to/in/for): ‘The book attempts to demonstrate the
influence of the stars on people’s lives.’
I don’t think that longer prison sentences would influence on criminals.
I don’t think that longer prison sentences would influence criminals.
influence sb/sth (WITHOUT on): ‘The revolution of 1789 influenced events far beyond France.’
Note the alternative: ‘I don’t think that longer prison sentences would deter criminals.’
605
information
On Friday we’ll be able to give you further information of the trip.
On Friday we’ll be able to give you further information about the trip.
Can you give me any information for summer courses?
Can you give me any information about summer courses?
information about/on sth (NOT off/or): ‘These files contain detailed information about our
overseas customers.’
Would you please send me more informations about the course?
Would you please send me more information about the course?
Let me know if you need a further information.
Let me know if you need (any) further information.
See Language Note at SCENERY
606
inhabit
The bathroom was already inhabited.
The bathroom was already occupied.
inhabit = (usually passive) live in a place or area, especially for a long time or permanently: ‘The island is mainly inhabited by sheep.’ The remoter mountain regions are still inhabited by indigenous tribes.’ ; occupy = use or live in a room, house or building for any length of time: ‘Is that seat occupied?’ ‘The flat below was occupied by a young Sri Lankan couple.’
607
inhabitant
The inhabitants certainly know how to make money from tourists.
The local inhabitants certainly know how to make money from tourists.
The inhabitants of a particular town, country or area are the people who live there, especially
considered in terms of quantity or history: ‘Just ten years ago the town had only 12,000 inhabitants.’ ‘The first inhabitants of the island planted coffee beans.’
To refer to the people living in and around a village or town, who have shared interests and
activities, use local inhabitant/local residents/local population or (in informal styles) locals: ‘The local residents against the motorway proposal.’
The rapid growth of the world’s inhabitants has produced serious social and economic problems.
The rapid growth of the world’s population has produced serious social and economic problems.
To refer to all the people in the world, or all the people living in a particular country, city, town etc,
use population: ‘Half the world’s population doesn’t have enough to eat.’ ‘To make it profitable, about a third of the population of France will have to visit Eurodisney each year.’ ‘The town has a population of 15,000.’
608
injure
My car was seriously injured in the accident.
My car was badly damaged in the accident.
We must all stop injuring the environment.
We must all stop damaging the environment.
Injure is used only in connection with people and animals: ‘Latest reports from the site of the
crash indicate that three people are dead and twelve are seriously injured.’
For objects, plants and machines, use damage: ‘Some of the equipment had been badly damaged.’
He shot dead 22 innocent people and injured 23 others.
He shot dead 22 innocent people and wounded 23 others.
wound = injure a person or animal by using a weapon such as a gun or knife: ‘He is accused of wounding a fellow prisoner.’ ‘The sergeant had been seriously wounded and was losing blood.’
Several people injured in the accident.
Several people were injured in the accident.
Fortunately the driver was wearing his seat belt and so he did not injure.
Fortunately the driver was wearing his seat belt and so he wasn’t injured.
Injure is a transitive verb: ‘Gibbs won’t be playing because he’s injured his knee.’ In passive sentences, use be injured: ‘You’re lucky you weren’t injured.’
I was afraid that she might injure.
I was afraid that she might injure herself.
See Language Note at MYSELF
He fell and was injured in the leg.
He fell and injured his leg.
Injure + a part of the body (WITHOUT in): ‘How did you manage to injure your shoulder?’ ; Compare: ‘He’d been wounded in the leg and couldn’t walk.’
609
inquiry
After making several inquiries I finally discovered his address.
After making several enquiries, I finally discovered his address.
In a simple request for information, the usual word is enquiry: ‘We’ve had a lot of enquiries in
response to the advertisement.’
When you mean ‘a full investigation or a long serious study’, the usual word is inquiry: ‘a court of
inquiry’, ‘There is to be an official inquiry into the cause of the crash.’
610
inside
Inside of the wallet there should be £20 and my Visa Card.
Inside the wallet there should be £20 and my Visa Card.
inside sth (WITHOUT of): ‘Inside the box was a small silver spoon.’
611
insist
The porter insisted to help us with our baggage.
The porter insisted on helping us with our baggage.
The porter insisted that he (should) help us with our baggage.
insist on (doing) sth: ‘He insisted on paying for the meal himself.’
insist that sb (should) do sth: ‘He insisted that he (should) pay for the meal himself.’
in spite of
612
instead
Instead of to go to a disco, we went to the cinema.
Instead of going to a disco, we went to the cinema.
You should go out more instead to stay at home all the time.
You should go out more instead of staying at home all the time.
instead of (doing) sth: ‘Instead of waiting for a bus, we decided that it would be quicker to walk.’
We had planned to go to the museum but we went to the park instead of it.
We had planned to go to the museum but we went to the park instead.
Instead means ‘instead of it/that’: ‘Wendy said she was too tired to play badminton and so we
went to the cinema instead.’
613
instructions
The machine is supplied with instructions how to use it.
The machine is supplied with instructions on how to use it.
I’m here to give you some instructions to cook Bin Dae Tuck.
I’m here to give you some instructions on how to cook Bin Dae Tuck.
instructions on how to do sth: ‘The crew has a full set of instructions on how to launch the
satellite.’
614
intend
Students that are motivated intend to work harder.
Students that are motivated tend to work harder.
intend = plan to do something: ‘I intend to arrive early and make sure that I get a seat.’
tend = be likely or true in most cases: ‘At that age, girls tend to be more mature than boys.’
615
intense
The government has embarked on an intense industrialization programme.
The government has embarked on an intensive industrialization programme.
intense = strong or very great; extreme: ‘intense heat’, ‘intense pleasure’, ‘intense pain’, ‘intense
competition’
intensive = concentrated: ‘an intensive English course’, ‘a period of intensive training’
616
intention
I don’t have the slightest intention to accept the invitation.
I don’t have the slightest intention of accepting the invitation.
We went to Stratford with the intention to see a play.
We went to Stratford with the intention of seeing a play.
have no/not the slightest intention of doing sth: ‘When the salesman realized that I had no
intention of buying the car, he just walked off.’
with the intention of doing sth: ‘I came to England with the intention of doing a PhD.’
617
interested
It was a very interested idea.
It was a very interesting idea.
See Note at BORING
She is interested on learning French.
She is interested in learning French.
I am not really interested by the job.
I am not really interested in the job.
interested in (doing) sth (NOT only/about): ‘I didn’t know that you were interested in yoga.’ ‘The
only thing she is interested in is having a good time.’
At school I wasn’t interested to learn English.
At school I wasn’t interested in learning English.
Use be interested to hear/read/know etc when you are talking about news or information: ‘We
were interested to learn that the research has been completed.’ ‘I’d be interested to know what
you think of the idea.’
Use be interested in doing sth when you are talking about someone who wants to do something:
‘She’s interested in setting up her own business.’
618
interesting
I was interesting to hear she had got married.
I was interested to hear she had got married.
I am very interesting in community work.
l am very interested in community work.
See Note at BORING
619
interior
Solutions to the country’s interior problems are still a long way away.
Solutions to the country’s internal problems are still a long way away.
interior = on the inside of a building, room, vehicle etc: ‘The interior doors are still sound but the
exterior doors need replacing.’
the interior = the part of a country that is a long way from the coast: ‘The convoy set off at dawn
for the interior.’
internal = involving what happens within a particular country: ‘Each country has the right to
control its own internal affairs.’
620
interrupt
The noise of the traffic interrupts the local residents.
The noise of the traffic disturbs the local residents.
interrupt = to stop someone while they are speaking or doing something, specially by saying
something yourself: ‘I’m sorry to interrupt but there’s an urgent phone call for you.’
disturb = make it difficult for someone to continue what they are doing: ‘Will it disturb you if I
listen to the radio?’ ‘I think we’re disturbing Martin. Let’s go and talk in your office.’
621
interruption
Between the first two classes there is a ten minute interruption.
Between the first two classes there is a ten-minute break.
interruption = something that suddenly stops you from continuing what you are doing or saying:
‘To avoid further interruption, we locked the office door.’
break = a short period when students or workers are free to do what they want: ‘At eleven o’clock
there is a twenty-minute coffee break.’ ‘During their break the boys usually kick a ball around in
the playground.’
622
intrude
I hope I’m not intruding your privacy.
I hope I’m not intruding (on your privacy).
Reporters have no right to intrude into people’s private lives.
Reporters have no right to intrude upon people’s private lives.
intrude (on/upon sb/sth): ‘I’m not intruding, am I?’ ‘Governments should not intrude on the rights
of the individual.’
623
invent
It will not be long before scientists invent a cure for this terrible disease.
It will not be long before scientists discover a cure for this terrible disease.
invent = create a machine, instrument, system or process which has never existed before: ‘Who
invented the telephone?’ ‘The cotton gin was invented by Eli Whitney in 1793.’
discover = find or find out something for the first time: ‘Penicillin was discovered almost by
accident.’ ‘I’ve just discovered a new way of cooking spaghetti.’
I’m sure that your host families will invent lots of interesting things for you to do.
I’m sure that your host families will think of/up lots of interesting things for you
to do.
think of = produce a plan, idea or suggestion by thinking: ‘Can you think of a good birthday
present for David?’ ‘I can’t think of any way of avoiding the problem.’
think up (also dream up) = produce a completely new plan, idea or suggestion by thinking hard
about something: ‘They’ve thought up a new advertising campaign.’ ‘Financial advisers will soon
think up new ways for us to evade tax.’
The word ‘workaholic’ was invented in America.
The word ‘workaholic’ was coined in America.
coin a new word or expression: ‘The term ‘black hole’ was coined in 1969 by the American
scientist John Wheeler.’
624
invention
Recent inventions in medicine have helped to reduce the rate of infant mortality.
Recent advances in medicine have helped to reduce the rate of infant mortality.
When you are talking about the development of new ideas or techniques that have a good effect,
use advance/breakthrough/discovery: ‘This new treatment could be the breakthrough that
cancer patients have been waiting for.’
625
invest
Businessmen invest vast amounts on these industries.
Businessmen invest vast amounts in these industries.
We should invest more money to education.
We should invest more money in education.
Invest money/£1 million/time etc in sth; ‘More money should be invested in local industries.’ ‘I’ve
started investing in foreign currencies.’
626
investigate
The Hong Kong government has already investigated into these problems.
The Hong Kong government has already investigated these problems.
investigate sth (WITHOUT into): The cause of the accident is still being investigated.’
Compare: ‘The army is conducting its own investigation into the explosion.’ (noun + into)
627
invitation
Thank you for the invitation for your wedding.
Thank you for the invitation to your wedding.
invitation to a party, wedding, meeting etc: ‘I’ve just had an invitation to a New Year’s Eve party.’
Note the alternative: ‘Thank you for the wedding invitation.’
628
invite
We became friends and he invited me for his wedding.
We became friends and he invited me to his wedding.
I’ve been invited in a party on Friday.
I’ve been invited to a party on Friday.
invite sb for a drink, meal, etc: ‘She’s invited us for a meal at the club.’
invite sb to dinner/lunch, a party, wedding, meeting etc: ‘We don’t have to invite them to dinner.’
‘The President has been invited to an official reception at Buckingham Palace.’
629
involve
My job involves to deal with customer complaints.
My job involves dealing with customer complaints.
involve (doing) sth: ‘A proper repair would involve stripping all the tiles off the roof.’
630
is
Is very easy to get lost in a big city.
It’s very easy to get lost in a big city.
See IT 1
631
island
I was on holiday with my parents on the island Capri.
I was on holiday with my parents on the island of Capri.
the island/isle of + name: ‘the holiday resort island of Langkawi’, ‘the Isle of Skye’
Does anyone live in the island?
Does anyone live on the island?
was born in a small village in Lantau Island.
I was born in a small village on Lantau Island.
When island means ‘a mass of land surrounded by water’, or is Dart of name, the usual
preposition is on (NOT in): ‘The prisoners were left on a small island, with neither food nor
drinking water.’ ‘Mr Mande placed in a maximum security prison on Robben Island.’
When an island is considered in terms of its people, cities, schools, roads, traditions, economy etc,
both in and on are used: ‘There has been no serious outbreak of cholera in the island for over
twenty years.’ ‘Elsewhere in the island most of these stone cottages have disappeared.’
632
it
Is easy to buy exactly what you want in a big city.
It’s easy to buy exactly what you want in a big city.
When you comment on a situation, the subject of the sentence is usually it: It’s impossible to read
in the dark.’ ‘It was good to see you again.’ ‘It’s hot today, isn’t it?’ ‘It was a miracle that nobody
was injured.’ Note that in this pattern It has no meaning. It simply fills the subject position.
it’s
See HAPPEN 1
See APPRECIATE 2, BEAR 2, FIND 2, LIKE 3
See NEED 1
The cat sat in front of the fire, cleaning it’s whiskers.
The cat sat in front of the fire, cleaning its whiskers.
It’s (WITH an apostrophe) = ‘it is’ or ‘it has’: ‘It’s still raining.’ ‘It’s been raining again.’
its (WITHOUT an apostrophe) = a possessive form like my, his, their, etc: ‘The dog has hurt its
nose again.’
633
its
Its a nice place to have a holiday.
It’s a nice place to have a holiday.
See IT’S
634
jargon
I don’t understand computer jargons.
I don’t understand computer jargon.
Jargon is an uncountable noun: ‘The document was full of legal jargon.’
635
jealous
Although I’m jealous about his achievements, he is my brother and I’m proud of him.
Although I’m jealous of his achievements, he is my brother and I’m proud of him.
jealous of sb/sth: ‘It’s very common for older children to be jealous of a new baby.’
636
jewellery
She had bought the ring at a jewellery.
She had bought the ring at a jeweller’s.
I saw the same watch in a jewellery shop.
I saw the same watch in a jeweller’s.
jewellery = rings, bracelets, necklaces, watches, etc: ‘The stolen jewellery has never been
recovered.’
jeweller’s = a shop which sells and repairs jewellery: ‘I took the watch to my local jeweller’s but
they said it couldn’t be repaired.’
You should keep expensive jewelleries in a bank or safe.
You should keep expensive jewellery in a bank or safe.
Jewellery is an uncountable noun: ‘The thieves took nothing but cash and jewellery.’
637
job
The photographer made quite a good job.
The photographer did quite a good job.
With the right tools, I could make the job in five minutes.
With the right tools, I could do the job in five minutes.
do a job (NOT make): ‘There are lots of jobs to do when we get home.’ (= pieces of work) ‘There’s
no need to thank me. I was just doing my job.’ (= what I do to earn a living)
do a good/great/marvellous etc job: ‘You can always rely on Charlie to do a good job.’
Note however the expression make a good/bad job of sth: ‘She’s made a good job of the
decorating.’ (= she has done it well)
I’m willing to accept any job, even a half-time one.
I’m willing to accept any job, even a part-time one.
See Language Note at OCCUPATION
What is your job?
What do you do (for a living)?
See Language Note at OCCUPATION
638
join
You should join in our tennis club.
You should join our tennis club.
join a club, society etc (WITHOUT in/up): ‘I’m thinking of joining the Labour Party.’ ‘He left his job
and joined the army.’
I came to England a year ago to join with my husband.
I came to England a year ago to join my husband.
join sb (WITHOUT with): ‘You two go on ahead and I’ll join you later.’ ‘Won’t you join us for a
drink?’
639
joke
He kept saying the same joke again and again.
He kept telling the same joke again and again.
tell (sb) a joke (NOT say) = tell someone a short funny story to make them laugh: ‘Come on, Peter!
Tell us a joke!’
crack/make a joke = say something funny: ‘He’s always laughing and cracking jokes.’
640
journey
I’ve arranged a journey to Malta from April 15th to May 2nd.
I’ve arranged a trip to Malta from April 15th to May 2nd.
I booked a journey to Brighton for two weeks.
I booked a trip to Brighton for two weeks.
See Language Note at TRIP
Then we’ll rent a car and have a journey through Scotland.
Then we’ll rent a car and go on a tour of Scotland.
See Language Note at TRIP
It wasn’t the first journey he had done to Paris.
It wasn’t the first journey he had made to Paris.
See Language Note at TRIP
641
judge
He was judged and sentenced to life imprisonment.
He was tried and sentenced to life imprisonment.
be tried = be judged in a court of law: ‘He is being tried for the murder of his wife and her lover.’
You shouldn’t judge people for their appearance.
You shouldn’t judge people by their appearance.
What standards should we judge them with?
What standards should we judge them by?
judge sb by a particular measure: ‘It’s better to judge people by what they do, not just by what
they say.’
642
jump
The price of vegetables jumped up overnight.
The price of vegetables jumped overnight.
jump = (of an amount, price, level, etc) suddenly increase: ‘House pricesjumped almost 20% in the
first quarter.’
643
junk
If you are caught dropping junk in the street, you are fined.
If you are caught dropping litter in the street, you are fined.
junk = (informal) anything that you consider to be worthless or useless: ‘The garden shed was full
of old junk that hadn’t been used for years.’
litter = things such as empty packets, cans and bottles that are left in a public place: ‘You can be
fined up to £100 for dropping litter.’
644
just
In the evening you should practise what you just have learned during the day.
In the evening you should practise what you have just learned during the day.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
645
justice
The legal system ensures the justice for everyone.
The legal system ensures justice for everyone.
See Note at THE 4
The justice of a country uses the threat of punishment to control people.
A country’s legal system uses the threat of punishment to control people.
justice = the principle of fair treatment upon which the laws of a country are based: ‘the 1970
Administration of Justice Act’, ‘He has spent his whole life fighting for justice and freedom for all.’
‘Relatives of the victims are now demanding justice.’
legal system = the laws of a country and the ways in which these laws operate: ‘When the colony
becomes independent, it will maintain its present legal system.’
646
keep on
He wants the new generation to keep on this tradition.
He wants the new generation to keep up this tradition.
keep up = continue a tradition, custom, habit, relationship etc (instead of letting it come to an
end); continue to use a particular skill: ‘We’ve managed to keep up our friendship despite all the
problems and misunderstandings.’ ‘Try to keep up your English while you’re back in Italy.’
647
keep up
People of normal weight should keep up eating the food they are used to.
People of normal weight should keep (on) eating the food they are used to.
keep (on) doing sth (or carry on doing sth) = continue to do something (instead of stopping): ‘Just
keep (on) going till you come to a crossroads.’ ‘You should keep (on) taking the tablets until
they’re all gone.’
Note the alternative: ‘People of normal weight should just keep to their normal diet.’
648
key
The key of our success is that we all worked very hard.
The key to our success is that we all worked very hard.
key to a problem or situation: ‘The key to inflation is control of the money supply
649
kid
Films of this type are not suitable for young kids.
Films of this type are not suitable for young children.
kid is used only in informal styles: ‘I’ll ring you back once the kids are in bed.’
650
kind
I wonder if you would be so kind to send me further details and an application form.
I wonder if you would be so kind as to send me further details and an application form.
be kind enough to do sth: ‘Would you be kind enough to forward the enclosed documents to Mr Tomkin’s new address?’
be so kind as to do sth: ‘I wonder if you’d be so kind as to inform your colleagues of the new arrangements.’
All the people he met were very kind with him.
All the people he met were very kind to him.
kind to a person or animal (NOT with): ‘She’s always been kind to people less fortunate than herself.’
There are many kind of job for people with qualifications.
There are many kinds of job for people with qualifications.
I enjoy all kind of sport.
I enjoy all kinds of sport.
Kind, sort and type are countable nouns. After many, all, these and other plural meanings, use
kinds/sorts/types (WITH -s): These kinds of fruit do not grow in cold climates.’
Imprisonment is not a good way of reducing this kind of crimes.
Imprisonment is not a good way of reducing this kind of crime.
Imprisonment is not a good way of reducing these kinds of crime/so kind/sort/type of + singular form: ‘this kind of envelope’ kinds/sorts/types of + singular or plural form: ‘these kinds of envelope/s’ Note that after kinds/sorts/types of a plural form can sometimes sound awkward and careful users generally prefer a singular form.
651
kindly
You are very kindly to spare me so much of your time.
You are very kind to spare me so much of your time.
She is always very kindly and helpful.
She is always very kind and helpful.
Kindly is nearly always used as an adverb: They’ve kindly offered to lend me their car while they’re
away.’ ‘Would you kindly sit down and stop being a nuisance.’
I wonder if you would kindly correct my mistakes.
I wonder if you could possibly correct my mistakes.
Would you kindly open the door?
Would you mind opening the door, please?
Kindly is used to mean ‘please’ only in formal styles. When used inappropriately, it can sound
sarcastic or even express anger: ‘Would you kindly keep your hands to yourself.’
652
knock
The woman got angry and knocked him.
The women got angry and hit him.
He thinks that someone knocked him on the head.
He thinks that someone hit him on the head.
When someone tries to hurt another person, they hit them: ‘He still had a bruise from the time she
had hit him.’
When Sandra knocked the door, he was washing his face.
When Sandra knocked on the door, he was washing his face.
knock on/at a door, window etc: ‘In future, don’t come in without knocking on the door.’
653
know
I ran downstairs to know what was happening.
I ran downstairs to find out what was happening.
Two police officers visited him to know where he had been on the night of the
murder.
Two police officers visited him to find out where he had been on the night of the
murder,
find out = get information about something that you want to know: ‘We need to find out why
these cars have stopped selling.’
The best way to know the city is to visit it on foot.
The best way to get to know the city is to visit it on foot.
When a woman goes out to work, she knows other people.
When a woman goes out to work, she gets to know other people.
know = be familiar with: ‘I know Frankfurt very well.’
get to know = become familiar with: ‘Once you get to know her, I’m sure you’ll like her.’ ‘We got to know each other very well during the week we spent together.’
I got to know the south of London very deeply.
I got to know the south of London very well.
(get to) know sb/sth very well (NOT deeply): ‘I know Alex very well. We used to go to the same school.’
He knew well where he wanted to go.
He knew exactly/precisely where he wanted to go.
know sb/sth well = be fully familiar with: ‘After living in Florence for two years, I know the city very well.’ Compare: ‘I’m completely against the idea, as you well know.’
653
knowledge
I don’t have much knowledge about it.
I don’t know much about it.
I only have a little knowledge about the United States.
I don’t know very much about the United States.
The man had a good knowledge of car engines,
The man knew a lot about car engines.
When talking informally about how much someone knows about something, use the verb know
(NOT have ... knowledge): ‘I don’t know anything at all about computers.’ ‘Talk to Parn. She
knows a lot about horses.’
Have ... knowledge is mainly used in formal styles when you give precise details of what someone
knows: ‘Tucker has an excellent knowledge of Sri Lankan tea plantations.’
I’ve learned a lot of knowledge during the course,
I’ve learned a lot during the course.
They get the knowledge of AIDS from the television,
They learn about AIDS from the television.
learn a lot/a great deal (NOT learn/get ... knowledge): ‘I’ve learned a lot this year.’ ‘She’s
improving but she still has a lot to learn.’
learn about sth: ‘We’ve been learning about the American political system.’
I would like to get more knowledge of ancient history .
I would like to improve my knowledge of ancient history.
improve/increase/further/brush up your knowledge (of sth): ‘I’d like to improve my knowledge
of Asian cultures.’
I am attending this course to improve my knowledges of English.
I am attending this course to improve my knowledge of English.
Knowledge never has a plural ending: ‘With all your knowledge, you should be a teacher.’
In this job you will need a good knowledge in English.
In this job you will need a good knowledge of English.
knowledge of a subject (NOT in/on): ‘She displayed an impressive knowledge of modern French
literature.’
654
lack
At school I used to lack in confidence.
At school I used to lack confidence.
She certainly doesn’t lack of enthusiasm.
She certainly doesn’t lack enthusiasm.
Do not confuse lack sth (verb + object, WITHOUT in/of) with be lacking in sth and (a) lack of sth:
‘He lacks the confidence to start his own business.’ ‘At school he was found to be lacking in
confidence.’ ‘She certainly doesn’t show any lack of confidence.’ ‘I think I’m suffering from a lack
of sleep.’
The room was fine except for a total lack of radio and television.
The room was fine except that there was no radio or television.
Someone noticed the lack of salad dressing.
Someone noticed that there wasn’t any salad dressing.
Lack is mainly used with abstract nouns: ‘a lack of support/sympathy/freedom/sleep/energy’
Avoid using lack with concrete nouns: ‘We don’t have any envelopes.’ ‘We’re short of envelopes.’
‘There aren’t enough envelopes.’
655
lady
At the front of the queue a man and a lady were arguing with the cashier .
At the front of the queue a man and a woman were arguing with the cashier.
Lady is used when you need to be polite, especially in formal styles: ‘Ladies and gentlemen, may I
have your attention please?’ ‘Please show these ladies the way to the cloakroom.’
The usual word is woman: ‘Isn’t that the woman who teaches at the International School?’
Note however that old lady is generally preferred to old woman, which sounds impolite: ‘Can you
help that old lady across the road?’
656
landscape
Lots of kings chose to live here because of the beautiful landscape.
Lots of kings chose to live here because of the beautiful scenery.
The landscape surrounding the village is really beautiful.
The scenery surrounding the village is really beautiful.
landscape = (a view, painting or photograph of) a wide area of land, especially in the countryside:
‘Having reached the top of the hill, we sat and admired the landscape that stretched far into the
distance.’ ‘Constable is known for his beautiful Suffolk landscapes.’
scenery = the natural features of the countryside (hills, valleys, fields etc) considered in terms of
their beauty, especially those seen from a particular place: ‘The train journey takes you through
some breathtaking scenery.’ ‘Cycling means that you can get fit and enjoy the scenery at the same
time.’
657
lane
It was so dark in the park that she kept wandering from the lane.
It was so dark in the park that she kept wandering from the path.
lane = a narrow road or street: ‘We rode our bikes along the little country lanes.’
path = a narrow strip of ground in a garden, park etc that is made for people to walk along: ‘There
used to be a path down to the stream, but it’s all overgrown now.’
658
language
I speak Arabic language all the time.
I speak Arabic all the time.
I spent the whole year learning English language.
I spent the whole year learning English.
They know Japanese language.
They know Japanese.
speak/learn/know etc + name of a language (WITHOUT language): ‘She speaks fluent English
and a little German.’ ‘Do you know any Malay?’ ‘I’d like to learn Mandarin.’
Note that the Arabic/English/Japanese language may be used when you talk about a language in
terms of its history, structure, users etc: ‘The English language has evolved over many centuries.’
659
large
The road wasn’t large enough for two cars.
The road wasn’t wide enough for two cars.
When you are talking about the distance from one side to the other, use wide or broad: ‘The river
is much too wide to swim across.’ ‘How did you get such broad shoulders?’
660
last
Did you hear what happened on last Friday?
Did you hear what happened last Friday?
He looks thinner than when I saw him in the last summer.
He looks thinner than when I saw him last summer.
The last Monday was a terrible day.
Last Monday was a terrible day.
See Language Note at TIME
In the last years many people have stopped smoking.
In recent years many people have stopped smoking.
in recent weeks/months etc (NOT last): ‘In recent months this stretch of the road has seen three
serious accidents.’
Compare: ‘Over the last few years many people have stopped smoking.’
First we listened to the tape, then we answered some questions, and at last we
wrote the story.
First we listened to the tape, then we answered some questions, and finally we
wrote the story.
We went from one restaurant to another, but all of them were full. At last we
decided to buy some pizzas and take them home.
We went from one restaurant to another, but all of them were full. In the end we
decided to buy some pizzas and take them home.
See Language Note at END
As a dress designer, I am very interested in the last fashions.
As a dress designer, I am very interested in the latest fashions.
last = (the one) before this one; (the one) at the end of a list, sequence or series: ‘Our last meeting
was in Rome.’ ‘I answered all the questions except the last one.’
Latest = designed/produced/published etc more recently than any other: ‘Have you seen Toyota’s
latest models?’ ‘The BBC World Service always has the latest news.’
At last but not least, I must mention the climate.
Last but not least, I must mention the climate.
last but not least (WITHOUT at): ‘Last but not least, I’d like to thank our sponsors for making this
evening possible.’
661
lastly
Lastly I got bored with walking round the streets, and went back home.
In the end/Eventually I got bored with walking round the streets, and went back home.
See Language Note at END
662
late
I often watch television until late night.
I often watch television until late at night.
Even late in the night, the roads are very busy.
Even late at night, the roads are very busy.
late at night: ‘Hedgehogs like to roam around late at night, when most other animals are asleep.’
663
lately
Lately someone told me that the fire was caused by a cigarette.
Recently someone told me that the fire was caused by a cigarette.
Both lately and recently refer to a period of time that begins in the past and continues until now
(the moment of speaking): ‘Just lately/recently I have been wondering whether to look for a new
job.’
Recently is also used to refer to a point in time: ‘Just recently she applied for a new job.’
One of the best films that I saw lately is ‘Hook’.
One of the best films that I’ve seen lately is ‘Hook’.
Lately I play a lot of Miles Davis tapes.
Lately I’ve been playing a lot of Miles Davis tapes.
We have a lot of rain lately.
We’ve had a lot of rain lately.
Lately is usually used with the present perfect tense: ‘I haven’t seen much of your sister lately. Has
she gone away?’
664
latest
The latest election was won by the socialists.
The last election was won by the socialists.
In the latest decades of the twentieth century, the world has seen many changes.
In the last decades of the twentieth century, the world has seen many changes.
See Note at LAST 4
665
laughter
His laughters filled the whole apartment.
His laughter filled the whole apartment.
Laughter is an uncountable noun: ‘There was always a lot of laughter and joking when Henry
came to dinner.’
666
lay
The tourists were laying in the hot sun like corpses.
The tourists were lying in the hot sun like corpses.
We broke down the door and found him laying on the carpet.
We broke down the door and found him lying on the carpet.
lay (laying, laid, laid) = put something somewhere: ‘She laid the money on the table in front of
me.’
lie (lying, lay, lain) = be in a horizontal position (on the ground/on a bed etc): ‘He was lying on his
back, staring up at the sky.’ ‘I could lie here all day!’
667
lay down
I just wanted to lay down and have a rest.
I just wanted to lie down and have a rest.
lay down = put something down: ‘Just lay the books down on the floor.’
lie down = put your body into a horizontal position, especially on a bed: ‘I think I’ll go and lie down
for half an hour.’
668
lead
Ali asked us if we would lead him to the theatre one night.
Ali asked us if we would take him to the theatre one night.
After breakfast I led my daughter to school as usual.
After breakfast I took my daughter to school as usual.
See Language Note at TAKE
669
learn
In the museum I learned Balinese culture.
In the museum I learned about Balinese culture.
learn a foreign language: ‘How long have you been learning Italian?’
learn about a subject: ‘Today we’ve been learning about the functions of the human brain.’
670
leave
I leave from Bilbao on 12th June.
I leave Bilbao on 12th June.
I left from the shop without buying anything.
I left the shop without buying anything.
leave somewhere (usually WITHOUT from): ‘If I leave the office at six, I’m home by ten to seven.’
Use leave from only when you want to refer to the place where a journey, trip, excursion etc
begins: ‘The coach will be leaving from in front of the hotel at six o’clock sharp.’
Ken’s aunt left to New York on 17th April.
Ken’s aunt left for New York on 17th April.
leave (somewhere) for somewhere else (NOT to): ‘She’ll be leaving for London on the nine o’clock
train.’
Every woman is entitled to a maternity leave.
Every woman is entitled to maternity leave.
leave (= a number of days, weeks or months when someone does not have to do their usual job) is
usually an uncountable noun: ‘Government officers get six weeks’ annual leave.’ ‘First she was on
sick leave, then she took study leave, and now she’s applied for maternity leave!’
671
lend
Could I lend your pen just for a minute?
Could I borrow your pen just for a minute?
See Note at BORROW
To lend a car, you have to have a driving licence.
To hire/rent a car, you have to have a driving licence.
We usually lend a villa so that we can cook for ourselves.
We usually rent a villa so that we can cook for ourselves.
See Note at HIRE
672
length
The length of the tunnel is about two miles.
The tunnel is about two miles long.
When you mention how long something is, a phrase ending with long usually sounds more natural
than the length ... is, especially in informal styles: ‘The garden is almost seventy feet long.’
The length of the film is one and a half hours.
The film lasts one and half hours.
last = take (a stated length of time) from start to finish: ‘Each lesson lasts fifty minutes.’ ‘This
afternoon’s exciting match on centre court lasted exactly two hours and twelve minutes.’
673
lengthen
The question is whether doctors should lengthen life when there is no hope of recovery.
The question is whether doctors should prolong life when there is no hope of recovery.
lengthen = make something longer; become longer: ‘We can use the old curtains, but they’ll have to be lengthened.’ ‘As evening fell, the shadows lengthened.’ ; prolong = prevent a feeling, activity or life from ending: ‘He asked her another question just to prolong the conversation.’
674
less
Teachers today are less stricter than they used to be.
Teachers today are less strict than they used to be.
The comparative ending (-er) is NEVER used with less or more.
If there were less cars on the roads, there would be less accidents.
If there were fewer cars on the roads, there would be fewer accidents.
Use less with an uncountable noun and fewer with the plural form of a countable noun: ‘Less
traffic would mean fewer accidents.’
Note that less is widely used in place of fewer in everyday conversation, but careful users regard
this usage as non-standard.
675
lessen
Fortunately, my workload has been lessened.
Fortunately, my workload has been reduced.
The best solution is to lessen the amount of traffic entering the town.
The best solution is to reduce the amount of traffic entering the town.
Lessen is mainly used in connection with pain and feelings: ‘I’ll give you an injection to lessen the
pain.’ ‘No amount of comforting could lessen Charles’ disappointment.’
When you mean ‘make something smaller in amount, number, price or size’, use reduce: ‘The
workforce has been reduced by 50 percent.’
676
lesson
I’ve been studying my lessons very hard.
I’ve been studying very hard.
After studying my lessons, I watched T.V.
After doing my homework/the exercises, I watched T.V.
When you mean ‘do work that has been set by a teacher’, use study, do your homework or do an
exercise (NOT study a lesson): ‘I spent the whole evening studying.’ ‘Mrs Potts gave us three
exercises to do for tomorrow.’
After lunch we’re doing a history lesson.
After lunch we’re having a history lesson.
I follow lessons on Thursdays and Fridays.
I have lessons on Thursdays and Fridays.
I’ve started to do lessons in English and French.
I’ve started to have/take lessons in English and French.
have a lesson (NOT do/follow): ‘I didn’t go into the classroom because the children were having a
lesson.’
have/take lessons (= arrange for someone to teach you): ‘If you want to improve your English,
you should have/take lessons’
677
let
You can travel by train or let a car.
You can travel by train or rent/hire a car.
Let = allow someone to live in your house, flat etc in return for money: ‘During the holiday season
we let the cottage to tourists.’
rent/hire = See Note at HIRE
Do you think your parents will let you go to England?
Do you think your parents will let you go to England?
let sb do sth (WITHOUT to): ‘Why wouldn’t Alice let you help her?’
Compare: ‘Do you think your parents will allow you to go to England?’
678
level
These courses are taught in postgraduate level.
These courses are taught at postgraduate level.
The volume of the radio should be kept in a low level.
The volume of the radio should be kept at a low level.
at a particular level (NOT in) = having a particular degree of intensity, power, proficiency etc:
‘Students at this level need individual tuition.’
‘Talks are being held at the highest level.’ Compare: ‘James likes school. He’s now in Level 3.’ (= in
a class at Level 3)
People in developed countries have a higher level of living.
People in developed countries have a higher standard of living.
When you are talking about the quality of something, the usual word is standard: ‘All his work is
of a very high standard.’ ‘Our company accepts only the highest standards of workmanship.’
What will we do if the sea level continues to increase?
What will we do if the sea level continues to rise?
See Note at INCREASE 2
679
lie
I was sure the old woman was saying lies.
I was sure the old woman was telling lies.
tell a lie (NOT say or speak): ‘I always know when he’s telling lies.’
680
lied
After a while he stopped running and lied down on the ground.
After a while he stopped running and lay down on the ground.
lie (lying, lied, lied) = say something which is not true in an attempt to deceive: ‘I wonder why he
lied about his age?’
lie (lying, lay, lain) down = be in or get into a horizontal position: ‘I lay down on the bed and fell
sound asleep.’
681
life
The cost of life is very high in London.
The cost of living is very high in London.
During a recession, some people find it difficult to make a life.
During a recession, some people find it difficult to make a living.
Phrases connected with the idea of money end with living (NOT life): ‘Salaries have not kept up
with increases in the cost of living.’ ‘It’s difficult to earn/make a living as an actress.’ ‘Acting is fun,
but I wouldn’t want to do it for a living.’
Television has taught me a lot about the American life.
Television has taught me a lot about the American way of life.
This busy type of life allows us no time to sit down and relax .
This busy lifestyle allows us no time to sit down and relax.
way of life = the way that a society, group or person chooses to live: ‘I found the British way of life
very strange at first.’ ‘The computer has transformed our whole way of life.’
lifestyle = way of life, especially that of a particular person: ‘As a photographer, she has a very
hectic lifestyle.’
The life in the countryside is quiet and relaxed.
Life in the countryside is quiet and relaxed.
He didn’t enjoy the life in the army at all.
He didn’t enjoy life in the army at all.
When life means ‘the way of life that is connected with a particular type of situation, group or
occupation’, it is usually used without the: ‘I found city life too stressful.’ ‘Life in New York is full of
excitement.’ ‘What do you think of married life?’
He was the most attractive man that I had met in my life.
He was the most attractive man that I had ever met.
When a superlative (‘most attractive’) is followed by a relative clause, use that ... ever ... (NOT
that ... in my/her etc life): ‘It was the best holiday we’d ever had.’ ‘This is the worst film I’ve ever
seen.’
It was one of the happiest days in my life.
It was one of the happiest days of my life.
superlative (‘happiest’) + noun + of your life (NOT in): ‘She refers to her childhood as the most
carefree time of her life.’
Compare: ‘One of the most important things in life is good health.’
On Saturday nights there is usually life music at the club.
On Saturday nights there is usually live music at the club.
live = heard or seen while it is actually being played or performed: ‘Tonight’s live concert comes
from the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden.’
682
lighted
It was dark inside so I lighted a match.
It was dark inside so I lit a match.
Suddenly a wonderful smile lighted up her face.
Suddenly a wonderful smile lit up her face.
The road was poorly lighted and it was difficult to see.
The road was poorly lit and it was difficult to see.
In British English the usual past tense and past participle form of light is lit. Lighted is mainly used
before a noun. Compare: ‘He lit a cigarette.’ ‘The cigarette hadn’t been lit.’ ‘He was holding a
lighted cigarette.’
683
like
What he likes to know is how much it will cost.
What he would like to know is how much it will cost.
Do you like me to show you where to go?
Would you like me to show you where to go?
When you mean ‘want’, use would like.
Compare: ‘Do you like playing the piano?’ (= Do you enjoy ... ?) ‘Would you like to play the piano?’
(= Do you want ... ?)
She would like that you ring her back after five o’clock.
She would like you to ring her back after five o’clock.
Would you like going for a walk with me?
Would you like to go for a walk with me?
would like (sb) to do sth: ‘Would you like me to help you with the packing?’ ‘I’d like you all to
listen carefully.’
I don’t like that my shoes get wet.
I don’t like my shoes getting/to get wet.
I don’t like it when my shoes get wet.
I don’t like when friends of mine get married.
I don’t like it when friends of mine get married.
like + sb/sth + doing/to do sth (NOT that clause): ‘I don’t like the children staying/to stay out
late.’
like + it + when/if clause: ‘I don’t like it when the children stay out late.’
Everyone arrived late like they often do when you don’t want them to .
Everyone arrived late as they often do when you don’t want them to.
Although the use of like as a conjunction is becoming fairly common and appears even in formal
English, it has not yet been fully accepted by careful users.
She spoke very loudly like I was deaf.
She spoke very loudly as if I was deaf.
The use of like to mean ‘as if’ is very informal and is usually regarded as non-standard.
684
limit
One solution would be for the government to put a limit on when these programmes may be broadcast.
One solution would be for the government to place restrictions on when these programmes may be broadcast.
When you are talking about the control of something by laws, rules etc, use restrict/restriction: ‘The government plans to restrict the sale of guns.’ ‘The 1986 law imposed new financial restrictions on private companies.’ ‘
685
linen
We complained about the dirty bed linens.
We complained about the dirty bed linen.
Linen is an uncountable noun: ‘The linen is changed once a week.’
686
list
I looked to see if my name was in the list.
I looked to see if my name was on the list.
on a list (NOT in): ‘If it’s not on the list, we don’t sell it.’
687
listen
My mother never listens what I say.
My mother never listens to what I say.
He invited me to listen his new CD.
He invited me to listen to his new CD.
listen to sb/sth: ‘You are listening to the BBC World Service.’
688
lit
All I could see in the darkness was the end of his lit cigarette.
All I could see in the darkness was the end of his lighted cigarette.
See Note at LIGHTED
689
litter
In the cities the streets are full of litters.
In the cities the streets are full of litter.
Litter is an uncountable noun: ‘Wherever you find crowds, you’ll find litter.’
Children should be taught that it is wrong to litter.
Children should be taught that it is wrong to drop litter.
If someone litters the street, someone else has to clear it up.
If someone drops litter in the street, someone else has to clear it up.
People drop/leave litter (= leave things such as empty packets, cans and bottles in a public place):
‘There is a $100 fine for dropping litter.’ Things litter a floor, street, area etc: ‘Discarded clothing
began to litter the dance floor.’
690
little
He works in a little office building in Geneva.
He works in a small office building in Geneva.
His parents died when he was still a little child.
His parents died when he was still a small child.
Little usually expresses an emotional attitude such as affection or dislike: ‘We’ve rented a cosy
little cottage in the countryside.’ ‘You shouldn’t let that silly little man upset you.’
When you simply wish to describe the size of someone of something, use small: Their daughter is
rather small for her age.’ ‘People are turning to smaller cars because they are cheaper to run.’
The police asked for a little description of the car.
The police asked for a brief description of the car.
He told me that I needed a little operation.
He told me that I needed a minor operation.
See Language Note at KILL
Today there are too many people for too little jobs.
Today there are too many people for too few jobs.
See Note at FEW 1
691
a little
It was my first interview and I was nervous a little.
It was my first interview and I was a little nervous.
Put a little in front of the word it modifies (NOT after it): ‘I felt a little sad.’ The news was a little
worrying.’ Compare: The town had changed a little/since my last visit.’
It was a little difficult question.
It was a slightly difficult question.
slightly + adjective + noun: ‘a slightly solemn expression’
a little bit
See BIT
692
live
Whenever we go to the seaside, we live in a hotel.
Whenever we go to the seaside, we stay at a hotel.
At the hotel, we lived in room 101.
At the hotel, we stayed in room 101.
stay at/in a hotel, youth hostel, etc (NOT live in): ‘In London we usually stay at the Savoy.’
693
living
The local farmers will never change their way of living.
The local farmers will never change their way of life.
We have different languages, traditions and living styles.
We have different languages, traditions and life styles.
See Note at LIFE 2
694
loan
The military government loaned millions of dollars from the world bank.
The military government borrowed millions of dollars from the world bank.
loan = (1) (noun) a sum of money that you borrow, usually from a bank: They are currently
negotiating a $100 million loan.’
(2) (verb) lend a painting, work of art etc to an art gallery or museum: The pictures have been
loaned to the National Gallery for the forthcoming exhibition.’
(3) (verb; especially in American English) let someone use something; lend: ‘Why don’t you ask
John if he’ll loan you his car?’
borrow = receive money or something that a bank or person agrees to lend you: ‘By the end of the
war the Canadian government had borrowed over $5 million from its own citizens.’
695
long
I am afraid it will take long to improve my English.
I am afraid it will take a long time to improve my English.
Use take long in questions and negative sentences: ‘How long does it take to get to London by
train?’ ‘It doesn’t take very long.’
Use take a long time in affirmative sentences: ‘It might take a long time to sort out the problem.’
696
look
Someone should inspect the kitchen twice a week to look whether everything is
nice and clean.
Someone should inspect the kitchen twice a week to see whether everything is
nice and clean.
Wait here and I’ll look if I can find him for you.
Wait here and I’ll see if I can find him for you.
see = find out (by checking): ‘I’ll go and see whether they have any rooms available.’ ‘While you’re
in the kitchen, can you see if the eggs are cooked?’
Compare: ‘I looked to see whether it was still raining.’
Then I looked the person sitting next to her.
Then I looked at the person sitting next to her.
look at sb/sth: ‘I looked at the clock to see what time it was.’ ‘What are you looking at?’
The report takes a close look on meat consumption.
The report takes a close look at meat consumption.
have/take a look at sth: They’re going to take a look at a new house this evening.’
697
look after
Having received news of his death, the police stopped looking after him.
Having received news of his death, the police stopped looking for him.
look after = take care of: ‘Who will look after you if you are ill?’
look for = try to find: ‘I wasted half the morning looking for my keys.’
look forward to
I’m looking forward the day I can go home.
I’m looking forward to the day I can go home.
He said he was looking forward for his holidays.
He said he was looking forward to his holidays.
look forward to sth (WITH to): ‘We’ve only just come back from holiday but we’re already looking
forward to the next one.’
I’m looking forward to hear from you.
I’m looking forward to hearing from you.
look forward to doing sth: ‘Simon is looking forward to having his own office again.’
698
look into
Have you looked into your pocket?
Have you looked in your pocket?
I decided to look into the telephone directory.
I decided to look in the telephone directory.
look in a book, container or room to find something or someone (NOT into): ‘I looked in the
drawer but it wasn’t there.’ ‘Go and look in the bedroom.’
Compare: ‘The police are looking into the matter.’ (= are investigating)
699
look like
The two younger children looked like tired.
The two younger children looked tired.
The job was not as easy as it looked like.
The job was not as easy as it looked.
look like + noun phrase: ‘She looks a bit like my sister.’ ; look + adjective (WITHOUT like): ‘The man looked very suspicious.’ ‘His wife looks much happier these day.’
700
lose
His illness has caused him to lose a lot of lessons.
His illness has caused him to miss a lot of lessons.
If you do not attend a class, meeting, activity, etc, you miss it: ‘If you don’t hurry up, you’ll miss your appointment.’ ‘I’d hate to miss one of John’s parties.’
I don’t care if they’re lazy, as long as they don’t lose my time.
I don’t care if they’re lazy, as long as they don’t waste my time.
Waste your/sb’s time = (cause someone to) spend an amount of time without doing anything useful: ‘I wish they’d stop asking me silly questions and wasting my time.’ ; Compare: ‘The puncture meant that we lost a lot of time.’
701
lost
This morning I noticed that my purse was lost.
This morning I noticed that my purse was missing.
If something is not in the place where you left it and you cannot find it anywhere, it is missing
(NOT lost): ‘Police are still searching for the missing diamonds.’ ‘She was making her way towards
immigration when she discovered that her passport was missing.’
Compare: ‘Oh no! I’ve lost my passport!’
702
lot/lots
She makes us do a lots of homework.
She makes us do a lot of homework.
She makes us do lots of homework.
a lot of (WITH a): ‘I bet she’s got a lot of money.’
lots of (WITHOUT a): ‘I bet she’s got lots of money.’
Lot of people come here because it’s near Morocco.
A lot of people come here because it’s near Morocco.
Groceries here are lot cheaper than in Japan.
Groceries here are a lot cheaper than in Japan.
a lot, a lot of (WITH a): ‘I’ve wasted a lot of time today.’ ‘He’ll have to work a lot faster from now
on.’
My husband and I met each other a lot of years ago.
My husband and I met each other many years ago.
The problem is that for a lot of years smoking was not considered to be anti-social.
The problem is that for many years smoking was not considered to be anti-social.
many + weeks/months/years (NOT a lot of): ‘Many years have passed since we were at school
together.’
Compare: ‘During the summer we spend a lot of time in the garden.’
There is a lot of countries in the same situation.
There are a lot of countries in the same situation.
See Note at THERE 2
703
love
I’m sure that once you see Venice, you’ll love it very much.
I’m sure that once you see Venice, you’ll love it.
love sb (very much): ‘I love him very much.’
love sth (WITHOUT very much): ‘I love tennis.’
704
luck
If you have luck, you’ll be able to hear Carreras sing.
If you’re lucky, you’ll be able to hear Carreras sing.
If you’re in luck, you’ll be able to hear Carreras sing.
That afternoon she had luck and found the keys at the bottom of a drawer.
That afternoon she was lucky and found the keys at the bottom of a drawer.
That afternoon she had a stroke of luck and found the keys at the bottom of a
drawer.
be lucky, be in luck, (have) a stroke/bit of luck (NOT have luck): ‘We’re lucky the coach didn’t go
without us.’ ‘You’re in luck, there are still a few tickets left.’ ‘I’m so pleased she got the job. It’s
about time she had a bit of luck.’
Note that when luck is used with have, it is always modified: ‘I’ve had enough bad luck to last me
a lifetime.’ ‘Some people have all the luck.’ ‘He hasn’t had much luck recently.’
I’d just like to say goodbye and wish you a good luck.
I’d just like to say goodbye and wish you good luck.
What a rotten luck! There he was again, sitting right beside me.
What rotten luck! There he was again, sitting right beside me.
Luck is an uncountable noun: ‘She’s had a lot of bad luck recently.’ ‘Meeting the right partner is
just a matter of luck.’
705
luggage
There was no room in the car for all our luggages.
There was no room in the car for all our luggage.
He had brought a heavy luggage with him.
He had brought some heavy luggage with him.
Luggage is an uncountable noun: ‘Do you have any more luggage?’
I spent the morning packing my luggage.
I spent the morning packing (my bags/suitcases).
pack or pack a bag/suitcase (NOT pack ... luggage): ‘I haven’t finished packing yet.’ ‘That’s not
the way to pack a suitcase!’
706
luxurious
You could stay at one of the big luxurious hotels, but the small hotels are far more
reasonable.
You could stay at one of the big luxury hotels, but the small hotels are far more
reasonable.
Consumers are offered more and more luxurious goods.
Consumers are offered more and more luxury goods.
To refer to a type or class of hotel, apartment, furniture, services etc, use luxury as a modifier: ‘a
luxury apartment in the heart of London’, ‘luxury bedroom suites imported direct from Italy’, ‘a
luxury liner’.
Use luxurious to describe something that is very comfortable and expensive: ‘The car’s soft cream
leather interior was extremely luxurious.’
Many people today do not consider a car as a luxurious thing.
Many people today do not consider a car as a luxury.
a luxury = something that you do not need: ‘We can hardly afford to buy food, yet alone waste
money on luxuries.’
707
luxury
They don’t have any money to spend on luxury things.
They don’t have any money to spend on luxuries.
luxuries (plural of luxury), luxury goods, luxury items (but NOT luxury things): ‘Tax on luxury
goods is bound to be increased.’
Some successful criminals enjoy a luxury life.
Some successful criminals enjoy a life of luxury.
A life of luxury is a fixed phrase: ‘His dream is to marry a princess and live a life of luxury.’
708
machine
Over eighty per cent of these cars are old, and so are their machines.
Over eighty per cent of these cars are old, and so are their engines.
machine = a piece of equipment which performs useful work, such as a sewing machine, washing
machine or computer: ‘To operate this machine, simply select the type of coffee you require and
press the green button.’ ‘The latest machines can run both types of software.’
engine = a device which provides the power for a motor vehicle, train, aircraft etc: ‘It was difficult
to make yourself heard above the roar of the engines.’ ‘Check the tyre pressures and top up the
engine oil.’
709
mad
She began to think she was becoming mad.
She began to think she was going mad.
go mad (NOT become): ‘Eventually, rejected by Hamlet, Ophelia goes mad and drowns herself.’
I’ve always been mad for tennis.
I’ve always been mad about tennis.
be mad/crazy about sth (NOT for) (informal) = like something very much: ‘Why are so many
people crazy about computer games?’
710
made
She claimed that the jumper was made from wool.
She claimed that the jumper was made of wool.
Many components are made by plastic.
Many components are made of plastic.
Margarine, which is made by natural ingredients, seems to be more acceptable.
Margarine, which is made from natural ingredients, seems to be more
acceptable.
Use made from when the original materials have been completely changed and cannot be
recognized: ‘Bread is made from flour and water.’
Use made of when the original materials have not been completely changed and you can still see
them: ‘Their dining table is made of solid oak.’
Use made by when you mention the name of the company or person that has made something
(NOT the names of materials): ‘This new razor is made by Wilkinson Sword.’
711
mail
It takes seventeen trees to produce one ton of junk mails.
It takes seventeen trees to produce one ton of junk mail.
Mail (= letters and parcels) is an uncountable noun: ‘Has there been any mail today?’
712
mainly
We were attracted by the clean air, the beautiful scenery, and mainly the peace
and quiet.
We were attracted by the clean air, the beautiful scenery, and above all the peace
and quiet.
What I like about her mainly is her sense of humour.
What I like about her above all is her sense of humour.
To show that one particular feature or item is more important than all the others, use above all:
‘The person we’re looking for has got to be smart, intelligent and above all trustworthy.’ ‘Above
all, the government wants to avoid an increase in inflation.’
Mainly the film is about the madness of war.
The film is mainly about the madness of war.
Mainly these problems involve the definition of words.
These problems mainly involve the definition of words.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
713
majority
The majority of houses in Germany have fitted carpets.
Most houses in Germany have fitted carpets.
The majority of (= more than half) is usually used in formal styles: ‘The majority of the
government voted against the bill.’ In other styles most (= nearly all) usually sounds more natural:
‘Most people have never even heard of him.’
The majority of motorists is opposed to the scheme.
The majority of motorists are opposed to the scheme.
the majority + singular/plural verb: ‘The majority is/are in favour of abolishing the death penalty.’
the majority of + plural count noun + plural verb: ‘The majority of voters are in favour of
abolishing the death penalty.’
714
make
I didn’t make anything in particular. I just stayed at home.
I didn’t do anything in particular. I just stayed at home.
In Italy we have made a great deal to prevent pollution.
In Italy we have done a great deal to prevent pollution.
He looked as if he had made something wrong.
He looked as if he had done something wrong.
For actions, the usual verb is do (NOT make): ‘Governments are not doing enough to reduce
unemployment.’ ‘I’m so worried I don’t know what to do.’ See Language Note at DO
I made lots of fun in London.
I had lots of fun in London.
On Saturday we’re making a party.
On Saturday we’re having a party.
See Language Note at DO
The cold water made me shivering.
The cold water made me shiver.
What made you to decide to work in the theatre?
What made you decide to work in the theatre?
make sb/sth do sth (WITHOUT to): ‘They made him take the examination again.’
Compare be made to do sth: ‘He was made to take the examination again.’
715
make up
The company rule is that all female employees must make up their faces.
The company rule is that all female employees must wear make-up.
She told me what to wear and showed me how to make up.
She told me what to wear and showed me how to put on my make-up.
wear/use make-up: ‘Some women refuse to wear make-up.’
put on your make-up: ‘I’ve just got to put on my make-up and I’ll be ready.’
716
man
Every day the man is inventing new machines.
Every day man is inventing new machines.
When you mean ‘the human race’, use man (WITHOUT the): ‘I can’t believe that man has actually
stepped foot on the moon.’
717
mankind
These bombs could lead to the destruction of the mankind.
These bombs could lead to the destruction of mankind.
mankind (= the human race) WITHOUT the: ‘Travelling into space was a great advance for
mankind.’
The nature of mankind is very complicated.
Human nature is very complicated.
In art we discover the beauty of mankind’s imagination.
In art we discover the beauty of the human imagination.
Mankind (or the human race) refers to all human beings considered as a group: ‘The greatest
danger to mankind is not science but ignorance.’ ‘These are the most devastating weapons
mankind has ever devised.’ ‘What is mankind’s long-term role in space?’
When you mean ‘belonging to or typical of people (as opposed to God animals, machines etc)’, the
usual pattern is human + noun: ‘Greed and envy are common human failings.’
Note that phrases such as human nature, human error, human interest and human weakness are
very common.
718
manner
Japanese manner is based on the idea that ‘you are superior to me’.
Japanese manners are based on the idea that ‘you are superior to me’.
See Language Note below
American manner is all about freedom and equality.
American culture is all about freedom and equality.
See Language Note below
Every society has its own laws and manners.
Every society has its own laws and traditions/customs.
See Language Note below
One of the biggest differences I noticed was the American manner of being polite
to strangers.
One of the biggest differences I noticed was the American custom of being polite
to strangers.
See Language Note below
719
many
One of the policemen started asking me many questions.
One of the policemen started asking me a lot of questions.
We are given many tests.
We are given a lot of tests.
Many and much are used mainly in questions and negative sentences: ‘Does he have many
friends?’ ‘It appears that he doesn’t have many friends.’ In affirmative sentences, phrases such as
a lot of and plenty of are used.
Note however that many and much are used in affirmative sentences after too, so, and as (‘You
ask too many questions.’) and sometimes in formal styles (‘Many accidents arise as a result of
negligence’).
It’s important to understand why there is so many violence in our world.
It’s important to understand why there is so much violence in our world.
See Note at MUCH 1
I had never seen so many and bright stars in the sky.
I had never seen so many bright stars in the sky.
There are not many and interesting Sunday newspapers.
There are not many interesting Sunday newspapers.
many + adjective + noun (WITHOUT and): ‘He is convinced that many serious accidents could be
prevented.’
720
mark
Her only distinguishing mark is her long blond hair.
Her only distinguishing feature is her long blond hair.
A mark on someone’s face or body is a small area of skin that is a different colour from the rest:
‘You’ve got two dark red marks on your nose where your glasses have been.’
Things such as the colour of someone’s eyes and hair, and the shape of their nose, chin and mouth
are their features: ‘As soon as he began to describe her features, I realized that he was talking
about Mandy.’
Before buying a cassette recorder, I asked my friend if he could recommend a good
mark.
Before buying a cassette recorder, I asked my friend if he could recommend a
good make.
As for cigarettes, there are many different marks.
As for cigarettes, there are many different brands.
mark (also Mk) = a model, type or version (used mainly in trade names): ‘a Mk II Jaguar’
make = a particular type of car, washing machine, camera, etc: ‘If you want a really good make,
go for a Nikon or a Pentax.’ ‘Which make of television do you prefer, Sony or Panasonic?’
brand = a particular type of soap, toothpaste, butter, cigarette, etc: ‘I’m tired of being told which
brand of washing powder I should use.’
721
market
The magazine gives a list of all the computers in the market.
The magazine gives a list of all the computers on the market.
on the market (NOT in) = available in shops for people to buy; for sale: ‘It’s not the cheapest
machine on the market, but it’s certainly the best.’
722
marriage
Why didn’t you invite me to your marriage?
Why didn’t you invite me to your wedding?
I have just received your marriage invitation.
I have just received your wedding invitation.
marriage = the ceremony of becoming husband and wife considered from a purely religious or
legal point of view: ‘Her parents are against the marriage.’
wedding = the occasion when this ceremony takes place and the celebrations that follow it: ‘I
never see most of my relatives apart from at weddings.’
723
married
She is married with a post office worker.
She is married to a post office worker.
be/get married to sb (NOT with): ‘How long has she been married to him?’
724
marry
He’s going to ask her to marry with him.
He’s going to ask her to marry him.
His daughter is expected to marry to a viscount.
His daughter is expected to marry a viscount.
After they get marry, they’re going abroad.
After they get married, they’re going abroad.
marry sb (WITHOUT With/to): ‘Isn’t he the man who married Elizabeth Taylor?’
get married (to sb): ‘I can still remember the day I got married. United were playing at Wembley.’
725
master
I have a master in Hotel Management.
I have a master’s in Hotel Management.
See DEGREE 1
726
match
The green jacket doesn’t match to the trousers.
The green jacket doesn’t match the trousers.
We chose the sunflowers to match with the wallpaper.
We chose the sunflowers to match the wallpaper.
One thing matches/doesn’t match another thing (WITHOUT to/with): ‘You can’t wear that blue
tie. It doesn’t match your shirt.’
Compare: ‘The green jacket doesn’t go with the trousers.’
727
material
In today’s material society, most people think only about money.
In today’s materialistic society, most people think only about money.
Material = connected with the physical needs that people have (as opposed to spiritual or
intellectual needs): ‘In material terms they are very well off, but spiritually they are deprived.’
materialistic = believing that money and the things that money can buy are more important than
anything else: ‘Modern society is becoming increasingly materialistic.’
728
mathematics
Mathematics are my favourite subject.
Mathematics is my favourite subject.
Mathematics (the subject) is an uncountable noun: ‘Mathematics is compulsory. Even if you don’t
like it, you still have to take it.’
729
matter
The matter is that we won’t have enough room in the car to take your mother with
us.
The problem is that we won’t have enough room in the car to take your mother
with us.
Matter is used to mean ‘problem’ or ‘trouble’ only in questions and negative sentences: ‘What’s
the matter?’ ‘Is anything the matter?’ ‘There’s nothing the matter.’
It doesn’t matter the nationality of the archaeologists.
The nationality of the archaeologists doesn’t matter.
Doesn’t matter the time.
The time doesn’t matter.
it doesn’t matter + clause: ‘It doesn’t matter if you can’t answer all the questions. Just do your
best.’
subject + doesn’t matter: ‘The results don’t matter. Just do your best.’
The flight attendant told us that there wasn’t any matter; it was just a storm.
The flight attendant told us that nothing was the matter; it was just a storm.
nothing/something is the matter or there is nothing/something the matter: ‘I think there’s
something the matter with the central heating. It’s cold in here.’ ‘Don’t worry. Nothing’s the
matter. It’s just a tiny cut.’
See FACT 3
730
matured
He isn’t matured enough to get married.
He isn’t mature enough to get married.
Replacing such a politically matured leader will not be easy.
Replacing such a politically mature leader will not be easy.
Use matured/mature when you are talking about wine, cheese etc: ‘The whisky is kept here until
it has matured/is mature.’
When you are talking about people, the usual word is mature: ‘He’s very mature for a boy of
sixteen.’
731
may
If I hadn’t seen the car coming, I may have been killed.
If I hadn’t seen the car coming, I might have been killed.
To refer to something in the past that was possible but did not actually happen, use might have or
could have (NOT may have): ‘If you had worked harder, you might have passed the exam.’
Compare: ‘I may have left it at home - I’m not sure.’
732
maybe
Maybe you’ll find the film very boring.
You may find the film very boring.
Maybe you will have problems breathing.
You may have problems breathing.
Instead of using maybe ... will, use may + infinitive: ‘They may decide that our offer is too low, of
course.’
Maybe this helps to explain Why there are so many divorces .
Perhaps this helps to explain why there are so many divorces.
Maybe is used mainly in informal styles: ‘Maybe you should see a doctor.’
Perhaps is used in all styles: ‘Perhaps he’s gone home already.’ ‘Perhaps there are other factors
that need to be considered.’
733
me
I got me a drink and sat down on the sofa.
I got myself a drink and sat down on the sofa.
What can I tell you about me?
What can I tell you about myself?
See Language Note at MYSELF
I still remember the day me and my sister went to Buenos Aires by bus .
I still remember the day my sister and I went to Buenos Aires by bus.
The pattern me and ... is sometimes heard in informal styles but is widely regarded as nonstandard. The usual pattern is ... and I: ‘George and I have opened a joint account.’
734
meal
You will be able to try some of the traditional meals .
You will be able to try some of the traditional dishes.
See Language Note at PLATE
We always take our meals in the canteen.
We always have our meals in the canteen.
In British English the phrase is have a meal (NOT take): ‘In the evening we had a three-course
meal.’
In American English both take a meal and have a meal are used, although take a meal (more
formal) is not very common.
735
mean
Being a good flight attendant means to make your passengers feel relaxed.
Being a good flight attendant means making your passengers feel relaxed.
mean to do sth = intend to do something: ‘I’ve been meaning to write to you for ages.’
mean doing sth (or mean + that clause) = involve doing something: ‘The new job will mean
getting up an hour earlier in the morning.’ ‘The new job will mean that I have to get up ....’
736
means
He was determined to get the money by all means.
He was determined to get the money by whatever means.
They intend to become famous by all means, even if they have to risk their lives.
They intend to become famous by whatever means, even if they have to risk their
lives.
By all means (= certainly) is used in formal spoken English to show that you are happy to accept
someone’s request or suggestion: ‘Would you mind if I stayed a bit longer?’ ‘By all means.’
When you mean ‘by using any method, even if it is unkind or illegal’, use by any means or by
whatever means (are available/necessary): ‘They are determined to get their hands on the
property by whatever means are necessary.’
Learning English is a means to improve one’s career prospects.
Learning English is a means of improving one’s career prospects.
means of (doing) sth = a way or method: ‘It’s time we stopped using force as a means of settling
disputes.’ ‘There must be an easier means of gaining their confidence.’
means to do sth (or means of doing sth) = the thing that is required or necessary (to make
something possible): ‘These people have lost the means to support their families.’ ‘They would like
to stop the war but lack the means to do so.’
By no means I want to suggest that people like being unemployed.
By no means do I want to suggest that people like being unemployed.
See Language Note at NOT
737
measurement
In my opinion, the authorities have to take even stricter measurements to save our archaeological treasures.
In my opinion, the authorities have to take even stricter measures to save our archaeological treasures.
measurement = the length, width etc of something: ‘You can’t buy new curtains without knowing the window measurements.’; measure = an action intended to have a particular effect; a law or ruling: ‘New measures are to be introduced in the fight against crime.’
738
media
Television is a very powerful media.
Television is a very powerful medium.
The medias, such as radio and television, tell us what is happening in the world.
The media, such as radio and television, tell us what is happening in the world.
When you are talking about television, radio and newspapers, use medium for singular reference:
‘Children learn as much through the medium of television as they do by going to school.’
Use media (WITHOUT -s) for plural and group reference: ‘the mass media’, ‘the news media’.
In January 1990, the international news media was excited because it appeared
that Mandela might be released .
In January 1990, the international news media were excited because it appeared
that Mandela might be released.
The media usually takes a plural verb, especially in formal styles: ‘The media have shown
considerable interest in the trial.’ A singular verb is sometimes heard in everyday conversation,
but some careful users consider this to be incorrect.
739
medicine
After drinking the medicine, I felt sleepy.
After taking the medicine, I felt sleepy.
take/have your medicine (NOT drink): ‘Have you taken/had your medicine today?’
740
medium
The medium score was about 6 out of 10.
The average score was about 6 out of 10.
medium = neither large nor small, neither tall nor short, etc: ‘The waiter was of medium height
and walked with a slight limp.’
average = calculated by adding a set of quantities together and then dividing this total by the
number of quantities in the set: ‘The average age of students entering the college this year is 19.’
‘Since 1991 house prices have been falling at an average annual rate of 8%.’
My ability in English is about medium.
My ability in English is about average.
If someone’s level of skill or ability is neither high nor low, it is average: ‘Elizabeth shows above
average intelligence for a child of three.’
741
meet
Could you meet with me outside the station?
Could you meet me outside the station?
The next time I met with her was in the supermarket.
The next time I met her was in the supermarket.
meet with sb (mainly American English) = have a (previously arranged) meeting with someone:
‘We met with their representatives to discuss the problem.’
meet sb (British and American English) = be in the same place as someone by chance or
arrangement: ‘Guess who I met on the way to the bank this morning?’ ‘I suggest we meet back
here in an hour’s time.’
Hello John. It’s good to meet you.
Hello John. It’s good to see you.
I can’t wait to meet you again at Christmas.
I can’t wait to see you again at Christmas.
When you greet someone you know well, or talk about meeting them, use see (NOT meet): ‘I hope
you’ll come and see us again soon.’
742
memorize
Following his death, a statue was erected to memorize him.
Following his death, a statue was erected in his memory.
memorize = learn something so that you are able to repeat it exactly: ‘Fortunately, I had
memorized her telephone number and was able to ring her from the station.’
in memory of sb, to the memory of sb or as a memorial (to sb) = as a permanent reminder of
someone after they have died: ‘The charity was set up in memory of the late Lord Hinton.’ ‘It was
built as a memorial to all those who died in the war.’
743
memory
Each visitor received a small gift as a memory.
Each visitor received a small gift as a souvenir.
I bought six postcards and a few small memories.
I bought six postcards and a few small souvenirs.
memory = something that you remember and see as a picture in your mind, especially an
experience that you had a long time ago: ‘The old teddy bear brought back vivid memories of my
childhood.’
souvenir = something that you buy or obtain in a particular place (especially while on holiday) and
keep to remind you of it: ‘The vase is a souvenir of my week in Venice.’
Casanova recorded his adventures in his memories.
Casanova recorded his adventures in his memoirs.
To refer to someone’s written account of (a period in) their life; use memoirs (pronounced
/ˈmem.wɑːz/): ‘The former President’s long awaited memoirs are to be published next month.’
You will remain in our memory and we all hope that you’ll visit Greece again next
summer.
We won’t forget you and we all hope that you’ll visit Greece again next summer.
You promise that you will not/never forget someone or the time you spent with them: ‘I’ll never
forget the magic week we spent together in Rome.’ The phrase remain in one’s memory is
grammatical but sounds unnatural.
I have many happy memories about my childhood.
I have many happy memories of my childhood.
memory of sth: ‘He smiled to himself at the memory of his son’s first day at school.’ ‘The order
and discipline of the job brought back memories of his army days.’
744
menace
Nowadays world peace is menaced.
Nowadays world peace is threatened.
Menace is usually used as a noun or adjective: ‘These street gangs are a social menace.’ ‘He was
convicted of menacing behaviour.’ Menace is not often used as a verb. It appears mainly in formal
styles and means ‘make or try to make someone feel their life or safety is in great danger’: ‘His
mighty war machine continues to menace neighbouring countries.’ When you are talking about
something which is a danger to peace, survival, safety, health, happiness, etc, use threaten:
‘These poisonous liquids threaten the drinking water supply of two million people.’ ‘AIDS could
threaten the economic well-being of Asian countries.’
745
mend
Old cars are easier to mend .
Old cars are easier to repair.
mend (or repair) a roof, fence, watch, radio, camera, puncture etc: ‘Once you’ve mended the
kettle, we can have a cup of tea.’
repair a vehicle or something that is wrong with a vehicle: ‘How will you get to work while your
car is being repaired?’
746
mental
Modern society provides us with material comforts but very few mental rewards.
Modern society provides us with material comforts but very few spiritual rewards.
mental = affecting or taking place in the mind: ‘People who have had mental illnesses are often unwilling to talk about them.’ ; spiritual = connected with the part of a person which has very deep thoughts and feelings: ‘African music has a spiritual quality which is often lacking in Western music.’
747
mention
The first place that foreigners think of when I mention about Indonesia is Ball.
The first place that foreigners think of when I mention Indonesia is Bali.
mention sth (WITHOUT about): ‘I don’t suppose she mentioned her new address?’ ‘They
mentioned how helpful you had been.’
748
menu
For the main menu we had fish, rice and vegetables.
For the main course we had fish, rice and vegetables.
See Language Note at PLATE
My favourite menu is cheese and mushroom omelette.
My favourite dish is cheese and mushroom omelette.
See Language Note at PLATE
749
method
We’ll have to find new methods of amusing ourselves.
We’ll have to find new ways of amusing ourselves.
Method (of/for doing sth) is used mainly in technical styles: ‘Farming methods have undergone
many changes in recent years.’ ‘The research project aims to develop new methods for trapping
solar energy.’
In non-technical styles, use way (of doing/to do sth): ‘There are several ways of answering the
question.’ ‘The best way to contact him is by fax.’
Some companies are taking new methods for coping with environmental problems.
Some companies are adopting new methods for coping with environmental
problems.
adopt a method: ‘This new method of treating the disease has been widely adopted.’
750
midday
We usually eat during the midday and again in the evening.
We usually eat at midday and again in the evening.
at midday (NOT during): ‘At midday the sun is directly overhead.’
Compare: ‘During the middle of the day the sun is very hot.’
751
middle
The girl was of middle height and was wearing a blue suit.
The girl was of medium height and was wearing a blue suit.
When you are talking about someone’s height, weight, etc, use medium (NOT middle): ‘The man
that police wish to question is of medium height and has a small black moustache.’
The wallet was middle brown and contained sixty dollars.
The wallet was medium brown and contained sixty dollars.
When you describe the colour of something, use medium (NOT middle): ‘a medium grey suit’ (=
neither light grey nor dark grey but somewhere in between).
On the middle of September she is going on maternity leave.
In the middle of September she is going on maternity leave.
in the middle of (NOT on): ‘The cat dropped the mouse right in the middle of the kitchen floor.’
‘What do we do if the fire alarm starts ringing in the middle of an examination?’
Middle Age
The history of the town dates back to the Middle Age.
The history of the town dates back to the Middle Ages.
middle age = the period in a person’s life between youth and old age: ‘People who live this type of
life are lucky if they reach middle age.’
Middle Ages = the period in European history from about 1100 to 1500 AD: ‘Life in the Middle
Ages was very simple.’
752
middle age
Sitting next to me was a middle age man, probably about forty.
Sitting next to me was a middle-aged man, probably about forty.
The Rolling Stones are all middle-age now.
The Rolling Stones are all middle-aged now.
The adjective is middle-aged (WITH -d): ‘They would prefer a middle-aged woman to a young girl.’
Middle East
Arabic is spoken all over Middle East.
Arabic is spoken all over the Middle East.
the Middle East, the Far East (WITH the): ‘Bahrain is in the Middle East.’
753
midnight
Her plane is due to land in about midnight.
Her plane is due to land at about midnight.
See Language Note at TIME
754
migrate
A lot of new doctors migrate to America where they can earn more money.
A lot of new doctors emigrate to America where they can earn more money.
migrate = (of birds, animals and people) travel from one place to spend a length of time in
another, especially to find food, water, warmer weather, etc: ‘How do birds know when to
migrate and how do they find their way back home?’
emigrate = (of people) leave your own country and make your home in another one: ‘There were
no jobs back home so we decided to emigrate.’
755
million
Belgium has ten millions inhabitants.
Belgium has ten million inhabitants.
The paper has a circulation of approximately 3.9 millions.
The paper has a circulation of approximately 3.9 million.
See Language Note at HUNDRED
We hung just over a million of little electric bulbs on the trees.
We hung just over a million little electric bulbs on the trees.
In the last ten years, more than two million of people have come to Milan to find
work.
In the last ten years, more than two million people have come to Milan to find
work.
See Language Note at HUNDRED
Nearly half million people entered the country.
Nearly half a million people entered the country.
See Language Note at HUNDRED
756
mind
I don’t mind to wait a bit longer.
I don’t mind waiting a bit longer.
(not) mind doing sth: ‘Would you mind posting this letter for me when you go into town?’
It was raining but we didn’t mind it.
It was raining but we didn’t mind.
When the object of mind can be understood from the context, mind is not followed by a pronoun:
‘Do you mind waiting a few minutes?’ ‘No, I don’t mind.’
The first thing that comes to my mind when I think about France is wine.
The first thing that comes to mind when I think about France is wine.
come/spring to mind (WITHOUT my, his, their, etc): ‘When I’m planning a camping holiday, the
first thing that comes to mind is the weather.’
Having in mind that the roads will be busy, I think that we should make an early
start.
Bearing in mind that the roads will be busy, I think that we should make an early
start.
bear in mind (NOT have): ‘Something else you need to bear in mind is the fact that not all
countries have public transport.’
757
minute
The train arrived at exactly twelve past three.
The train arrived at exactly twelve minutes past three.
When telling the time, minutes must be used after all numbers except five, ten, twenty, and
twenty-five.
Compare: ‘It’s twenty (minutes) past ten.’ (minutes can be used)
‘It’s twenty-three minutes past ten.’ (minutes must be used)
The college is a twenty minutes bus ride from my flat.
The college is a twenty-minute bus ride from my flat.
See Language Note at HUNDRED
758
mist
Her flight was held up on account of the mist.
Her flight was held up on account of the fog.
mist = tiny drops of water in the air that make it difficult to see things that are far away: ‘As the
day wore on, the early morning mist quickly disappeared.’
fog = very thick mist: ‘Traffic on several stretches of the M1 was slowed to a walking pace this
morning as the result of thick fog.’
759
mistake
It doesn’t matter if you do a slight mistake.
It doesn’t matter if you make a slight mistake.
make a mistake (NOT do): ‘It’s easy to make mistakes when you’re tired.’ See Language Note at
DO
760
mister
Dear Mister Southcroft...
Dear Mr Southcroft...
Mister is always written Mr: ‘Mr Jones called this morning about the central heating.’ See also MR
761
moist
Basement flats are often dark and moist.
Basement flats are often dark and damp.
moist = slightly wet, especially in a pleasant way: ‘The bread was still nice and moist.’ ‘These
plants prefer a warm, moist atmosphere.’
damp = slightly wet, especially in a cold and unpleasant way: ‘Our hotel room felt cold and damp.’
‘On damp days, we have to dry the washing indoors.’
762
moment
In that moment the door opened.
At that moment the door opened.
in a moment = very soon: ‘I’ll have to go in a moment.’
at that moment = at that particular time: ‘Just at that moment the telephone rang.’
At the moment the girl opened her eyes.
At that moment the girl opened her eyes.
When" you are telling a story or reporting what happened, use at that moment ‘At that moment
the car skidded on the ice and went off the road.’
Compare: ‘At the moment I’m working in a restaurant.’ (= now, at the present time)
At the moment I saw him, I knew something was wrong.
The moment I saw him, I knew something was wrong.
the moment (WITHOUT at) = as soon as: ‘He fell in love with Samantha the moment he set eyes
on her.’
I’d like to see him in my office the moment he will arrive.
I’d like to see him in my office the moment he arrives.
See Language Note at WILL
763
monument
See Language Note at HUNDRED
It is impossible to visit all the monuments of London in one day.
It is impossible to see all the sights of London in one day.
monument = (1) a structure, usually made of stone, that is built to remind people of an important
event or famous person; memorial: ‘The inscription at the foot of the monument read: To all those
who gave their lives so that others could live in freedom.’ (2) a building or structure that is
preserved because of its historical importance: ‘If you are interested in ancient monuments you
will find the Pyramids fascinating.’
see the sights = visit the interesting places in a city or country: ‘I wanted to look round Moscow
and see the sights.’
764
mood
The mood of the castle depends on the weather.
The atmosphere of the castle depends on the weather.
The streets were very crowded and had a holiday mood .
The streets were very crowded and had a holiday atmosphere.
The streets were full of people in a holiday mood.
mood = the way someone feels at a particular time, such as happy, angry, etc: ‘I’d keep clear of
George this morning - he’s in one of his bad moods.’
atmosphere = the general impression that a place gives you: ‘Their house always has a warm,
friendly atmosphere.’
765
more
In Taiwan the food is more cheaper than in England.
In Taiwan the food is cheaper than in England.
These machines make farming much more easier.
These machines make farming much easier.
Do not use more with the -er form of an adjective or adverb: ‘Leather bags are more expensive
but they tend to last longer.’
more or less
See MUCH 2
See NO MORE
Some women more or less are forced to work nowadays.
Some women are more or less forced to work nowadays.
More or less is usually placed immediately in front of the word or phrase that it modifies: ‘The two
words have more or less the same meaning.’
‘My wife and I met each other more or less by accident.’ ‘That’s more or less everything you need
to know.’
In everyday conversation more or less also comes at the end of a sentence: ‘I guess that’s
everything you need to know, more or less.’
766
morning
At morning I wake up at 6:30.
In the morning I wake up at 6:30.
The trains are very crowded in morning.
The trains are very crowded in the morning.
See Language Note at TIME
767
most
Where I come from, the most teachers have to teach at two schools in order to
earn enough.
Where I come from, most teachers have to teach at two schools in order to earn
enough.
When you mean ‘nearly all’, use most (NOT the most): ‘Most universities provide a wide range of
courses.’
Use the most in comparisons: ‘Which city has the most tourists?’ ‘Rome and Florence are indeed
beautiful, but Venice is the most romantic.’
Both girls are clever but Edna is the most intelligent.
Both girls are clever but Edna is (the) more intelligent.
Use (the) most when comparing one person or thing with all others: ‘This is the most ridiculous
excuse I’ve ever heard.’
When comparing just two people or things, use (the) more: ‘Which is (the) more expensive - an
ALR or an IBM?’
Note that in everyday conversation some people use (the) most instead of (the) more, but careful
users consider this to be incorrect.
768
mostly
We see each other mostly every day.
We see each other almost every day.
Mostly every family has a television.
Nearly every family has a television.
Use almost/nearly with all/every/everyone etc (NOT mostly): ‘Almost everyone in the office has
had a cold recently.’
Compare: ‘The students here are mostly Swiss or German.’ (= most of the students here ... )
769
motor
It’s an old car and the motor is very noisy.
It’s an old car and the engine is very noisy.
motor = the part of a machine which turns electrical power into movement: ‘My video camera
isn’t working. Either the battery is flat or there’s something wrong with the motor.’
engine = See Note at MACHINE
770
move
When they saw that I couldn’t move myself, they called an ambulance.
When they saw that I couldn’t move, they called an ambulance.
See Language Note at MYSELF
Mr
Our English teacher is called Mr John.
Our English teacher is called Mr (John) Smith.
Mr/Mrs/Miss/Ms (+ first name) + surname: ‘Mrs Waters’, ‘Mr Clive Upton’
Dear Mr,
Dear Sir,
Dear Mr/Mrs,
Dear Sir/Madam,
When you are writing a formal letter and you know the surname of the addressee, begin Dear Mr
Smith, Dear Mrs Jones, Dear Ms Simpson etc. When you do not know the person’s surname,
begin Dear Sir, Dear Madam or Dear Sir/Madam.
Dear Mr Alan Jones,
Dear Mr Jones,
Dear is followed by Mr/Mrs/Ms + surname only (NOT first name + surname): ‘Dear Mrs Jackson’
771
much
We don’t need to hire that much employees.
We don’t need to hire that many employees.
There are as much disadvantages as advantages.
There are as many disadvantages as advantages.
There are too much people in Mexico.
There are too many people in Mexico.
much + uncountable noun: ‘There isn’t much traffic today.’ ‘There was too much furniture in the
room.’
many + plural (countable) noun: ‘There aren’t many cars today.’ ‘There were too many chairs in
the room.’
Nowadays, there are much more criminals than policemen.
Nowadays, there are far more criminals than policemen.
I make much too many mistakes.
I make far too many mistakes.
At the beginning of a phrase that ends with a plural (countable) noun,
use far (NOT much). Compare: ‘much more traffic’, ‘far more cars’
As a doctor he earns much money.
As a doctor he earns a lot of money.
See Note at MANY 1
British culture is much different from ours.
British culture is very different from ours.
We were much afraid that we would miss the flight.
We were very afraid that we would miss the flight.
Much is used before an adjective (1) in questions and negative sentences: ‘Is British culture much
different from ours?’ ‘No, it isn’t much different.’ (2) before comparative forms: ‘His last novel was
much longer and much more interesting.’ (3) before certain past participles acting as adjectives:
‘Her drawings are much admired.’
772
music
Nowadays I prefer classical musics.
Nowadays I prefer classical music.
Are we allowed to play a pop music?
Are we allowed to play pop music?
Music is an uncountable noun: ‘Her hobbies are gardening and music.’
After leaving school, he joined a music band.
After leaving school, he joined a band.
(jazz/rock) band or (pop/rock) group (NOT music band): ‘The band’s new album has just been
released.’
773
must
People are not as careful as they must be and drop their litter in the streets.
People are not as careful as they should be and drop their litter in the streets.
Use must (or have to) when, for example, there is a law or rule and you are not free to choose or
decide for yourself: ‘Candidates must answer all the questions in Part A and two questions in Part
B.’
Use should (or ought to) when, for example, someone advises you to do something but you are
free to choose or decide for yourself: ‘At the end of the examination, you should check your
answers.’
The pupils mustn’t go to the meeting if they don’t want to.
The pupils needn’t go to the meeting it they don’t want to.
Use must not/never when you mean that it is essential that someone does not do something: ‘The
door to the X-ray room must never be opened when the red light is on.’
When you mean that it is not necessary for someone to do something, use needn’t or don’t
need/have to: ‘You needn’t pay now. You can wait until the furniture has been delivered.’
You must be pleased to hear that I’ve already got the tickets.
You’ll be pleased to hear that I’ve already got the tickets.
When you inform someone of something, use will be + pleased/interested + to hear/know/learn
(NOT must): ‘You will be pleased to know that your old friend Peter has been promoted to
Associate Professor.’
If you can’t find her, she must hide somewhere.
If you can’t find her, she must be hiding somewhere.
When you do not actually know where someone is or what they are doing, but certain facts allow
you to guess, use must be or must be doing: ‘If she isn’t in her office, she must be in the canteen.’
‘If she’s in the canteen, she must be having her lunch.’
774
name
This beautiful village is named ‘Cadaques’.
This beautiful village is called ‘Cadaques’.
I stayed in and watched a film named ‘The Clockwork Orange’.
I stayed in and watched a film called ‘The Clockwork Orange’.
What we used to name ‘the Cold War’ is now over.
What we used to call ‘the Cold War’ is now over.
When you mention the name by which someone or something is known, use call/be called (NOT
name/be named): ‘Most people call him Bob but he prefers to be called Robert.’
Compare: ‘They’ve named/called the baby Louise.’ (= the name they have chosen for the baby is
Louise)
They named their children from their grandparents.
They named their children after their grandparents.
name a child after sb: ‘We’ve decided to name her Sarah, after her grandmother.’
In American English name a child for sb is also possible, although not very common.
775
narrow
When immersed in water, the cloth narrows.
When immersed in water, the cloth shrinks.
narrow (of roads, rivers etc) = become less wide: ‘Just beyond the bend, the river begins to
narrow.’
shrink (especially of cloth) = become smaller as a result of being wet or placed in water: ‘I suggest
you buy the larger size just in case it shrinks.’
776
nation
It’s hard to tell which nation he comes from.
It’s hard to tell which country he comes from.
A person comes from, lives in, or feels part of a particular country (NOT nation): ‘Some people in
this country think that the leadership is too weak.’ ‘People living in former Soviet bloc countries
are undergoing a difficult period of transition.’
Nation is less common than country and is mainly used when a country is considered as a political
or economic structure: ‘Japan has become the richest nation in the world.’ ‘Representatives from
the world’s leading industrial nations will meet next month in Geneva.’
Note the alternative: ‘It’s hard to tell his nationality.’
777
nationality
My name is Iman Jalil and my nationality is Iraqi.
My name is Iman Jalil and I come from Iraq.
The usual way of referring to someone’s nationality is to use come from: ‘Most of the students in
my class come from Oman or Bahrain.’
Nationality is used mainly in formal styles: ‘Visitors of Swedish nationality do not require a visa.’
‘Despite being born in Germany, these children do not have an automatic right to German
nationality.’
778
native
The airport extension is strongly opposed by the natives.
The airport extension is strongly opposed by the local residents.
Nowadays the noun native is usually used in formal styles to refer to the place where someone
was born: ‘His real name was Harvey Pepper, a native of Montreal.’ or to the country/region
where a particular animal or plant has always grown: ‘This useful herb is a native of southern
Europe, but has adjusted well to colder climates.’
To refer to the people who live in and around a village, town or city, and have shared interests and
activities, use local residents, local population or (in informal styles) locals: ‘Local residents are
against the motorway proposal.’
779
nature
I have always found the nature fascinating.
I have always found nature fascinating.
Nature (= the natural world of birds, trees, rivers etc) is never used with the: ‘We must stop
destroying nature before it is too late.’
780
near
He decided to visit a friend who lived very near from where he was at that
moment.
He decided to visit a friend who lived very near (to) where he was at that
moment.
near or near to (NOT near from): ‘The post office is near (to) the bank.’ ‘If we moved to Dallas, we
would be nearer to my parents.’
I went near to the girl and told her my name.
I went up to the girl and told her my name.
See Note at TO 2
I sometimes meet friends in a near restaurant.
I sometimes meet friends in a nearby restaurant.
I ran to the telephone box which was near to call an ambulance.
I ran to the telephone box nearby to call an ambulance.
To say that something is only a short distance from a place, use nearby: ‘I stopped at one of the
nearby cottages and asked the way.’ ‘It’s very convenient having a supermarket nearby.’
781
nearby
Their house is nearby the new airport.
Their house is near the new airport.
Nearby is used as an adjective or adverb: ‘We flew from a nearby airport.’ ‘There is an airport
nearby.’
When you need a preposition, use near: ‘The hotel is near the sea.’
782
nearly
In the countryside there is nearly no pollution.
In the countryside there is hardly any pollution.
Instead of saying nearly no/nobody/never etc, use hardly any/anybody/ever etc: ‘Hardly any of
my friends are married.’ ‘Hardly anybody objected to the idea.’
783
necessity
It was then that I felt the necessity to improve my English.
It was then that I felt the need to improve my English.
If something is a necessity, you must have it or do it, or it must happen: ‘If you saw the terrible
conditions in which these people are living, you would appreciate the necessity to step up foreign
aid.’ ‘For anyone who runs a large business, a computer is an absolute necessity.’
Need has a similar meaning to necessity but it is also used in connection with something that you
want to do/have/happen (although itis not essential): ‘I began to feel the need for a change of life
style.’ ‘Don’t you ever feel the need to do something more creative?’
784
need
It is no need to tell the police about the accident.
There is no need to tell the police about the accident.
there is no need to do sth (NOT it is ... ): ‘There’s no need to start getting upset.’
There is a great need of international understanding.
There is a great need for international understanding.
a need for sth (NOT of): ‘The government is conscious of the need for more schools. See NEED 3
We have an urgent need of a new secretary.
We are in urgent need of a new secretary.
I’m in urgent need for a loan.
I’m in urgent need of a loan.
be in need of sth (= require): ‘The car is in need of a good clean.’ ‘Are you in need of any
assistance?’
For a long time I have felt the need of improving my French.
For a long time I have felt the need to improve my French.
a need to do sth (NOT of/for doing): ‘I don’t understand their need to sell the house.’
Tina needs leave her house at seven o’clock every morning.
Tina needs to leave her house at seven o’clock every morning.
In affirmative sentences, use need to do sth (WITH to): ‘I need to get to the airport by seven at the
latest:’
Compare (1) the negative forms: ‘She doesn’t need to stay if she doesn’t want to.’ ‘She needn’t
stay if she doesn’t want.’ (2) the question forms: ‘Does she need to stay any longer?’ ‘Need she
stay any longer?’
need not/needn’t
During the day I need not work.
During the day I don’t need/have to work.
They need not get a job if their parents are rich.
They don’t need/have to get a job if their parents are rich.
Use needn’t/need not (or don’t need/have to) to refer to the situation ‘now’ (at the moment of
speaking): ‘You needn’t rush. I’m not in a hurry.’ To refer to general situations, you usually use
don’t need to or don’t have to: ‘You don’t need/have to drive everywhere if there is a good bus
service.’
They need not to feel ashamed of themselves.
They needn’t feel ashamed of themselves.
They don’t need to feel ashamed of themselves.
Catherine told her husband he needn’t to worry.
Catherine told her husband he needn’t worry.
Catherine told her husband he didn’t need to worry.
needn’t/need not do sth (WITHOUT to): ‘You needn’t wait if you’re in a hurry.’
don’t need to do sth (WITH to): ‘You don’t need to wait if you’re in a hurry.’
Note that need not is used mainly in formal styles. In other styles, the usual form is needn’t.
needless to say
Needless to say that his films are very popular with children.
Needless to say, his films are very popular with children.
Needless to say (an adverb meaning ‘of course’) is NOT followed by a that clause: ‘Needless to
say, I was delighted to see that I had passed.’
785
neglect
Some teachers neglect how much a student can take in during one lesson.
Some teachers forget how much a student can take in during one lesson.
neglect = (1) fail to look after someone or something properly: ‘The garden has been badly
neglected and will require a lot of attention.’ (2) (formal) fail to do something, especially
something that you ought to do: ‘The public are demanding to know why the government
neglected to warn them of the oil shortage.’
forget = fail to realize something (and be guided by it): ‘Children tend to forget that their parents
like to have fun too.’
786
negligent
There was a negligent amount of liquid in the test tube.
There was a negligible amount of liquid in the test tube.
negligent = failing to take proper care, especially in your job; careless: ‘The court decided that the
pilot of the crashed aircraft had been negligent.’
negligible = (of an amount) so small that it has no effect and can be ignored: ‘The cost of
maintaining the machine is negligible.’
787
neither
Inside the examination room we could neither smoke or talk.
Inside the examination room we could neither smoke nor talk.
His parents neither shouted at him or smacked him.
His parents neither shouted at him nor smacked him.
neither ... nor ... (NOT neither ... or ... ): ‘The sales assistant was neither friendly nor helpful.’
Compare: ‘You can either come with me or wait here.’
Neither John’s father nor mine couldn’t understand the problem.
Neither John’s father nor mine could understand the problem.
After neither and neither .. nor ... the verb is affirmative (NOT negative): ‘Neither applicant had
the right qualifications.’ ‘Neither the teachers nor the students had been informed.’ See Language
Note at NOT
I have neither studied the language nor the culture.
I have studied neither the language nor the culture.
Neither should be placed immediately before the first of the connected items and nor immediately
before the second. Compare: ‘I have neither studied nor experienced the culture.’
Neither teachers are coming.
Neither teacher is coming.
Neither of the teachers is coming.
After neither + singular noun, the verb is singular: ‘Neither player wants a transfer.’
After neither of + plural noun, careful users prefer a singular verb: ‘Neither of the players wants a
transfer.’ Some people use a plural verb, especially in informal styles: ‘Neither of the players want
a transfer.’
788
nervous
Thinking she might be hurt, I felt very nervous.
Thinking she might be hurt, I felt very anxious.
nervous = worried and unable to relax, especially because you lack confidence: There’s no need to
be so nervous. It’s only an interview.’
anxious = very worried about something which may happen or may have happened: ‘I knew that
there were no sharks around but all the same I couldn’t help feeling anxious.’ What really made
me nervous was the
What really made me nervous was the way he kept pulling my sleeve.
What really irritated me was the way he kept pulling my sleeve.
nervous = worried and unable to relax: ‘I hate the way the teacher watches me when I’m working
- it makes me feel nervous.’
Irritate = (of something unpleasant that happens repeatedly or continuously) make someone feel
slightly angry; annoy: ‘His attempts to sound important irritate people.’ Note the alternative:
‘What I found really irritating was the way ... ‘
789
never
I asked him to never arrive late.
I asked him never to arrive late.
Never and not usually go immediately in front of a to infinitive: ‘He’s promised never to do it
again.’
You never can get really good beef in our local supermarket.
You can never get really good beef in our local supermarket.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
My father did never have the opportunity to go to university.
My father never had the opportunity to go to university.
Do is often used with not to make negative statements: ‘I didn’t answer the letter.’ ‘She’ doesn’t
invite strangers.’ However, do is NOT used in this way with never: ‘I never answered the letter.’
‘She never invites strangers.’
The exception to this rule is when do is used for emphasis: ‘You never did tell me why you decided
to leave your last job.’
She said some of the rudest things I have never heard in all my life.
She said some of the rudest things I have ever heard in all my life.
never = at no time: ‘I’ve never met his wife.’ ‘I had never met his wife before yesterday.’
ever = at any time: ‘Have you ever met his wife?’
Note that ever is often used after a superlative: ‘His wife is the kindest person I’ve ever met.’
‘Nobody will never find me,’ he thought.
‘Nobody will ever find me,’ he thought.
After nobody/nothing/rarely and other words with a negative meaning, use ever (NOT never):
‘After she won the national lottery, nothing was ever the same again.’
See also Language Note at NOT
Never I had seen such an ugly face.
Never had I seen such an ugly face.
See Language Note at NOT
790
nevertheless
I was born and grew up in Switzerland, nevertheless Italy is the country that I have grown to love and where I now live.
I was born and grew up in Switzerland. Nevertheless, Italy is the country that I have grown to love and where I now live.
I was born and grew up in Switzerland but (nevertheless) Italy is the country that I have grown to love and where I now live.
Unlike but, nevertheless is an adverb (NOT a conjunction): The survey was conducted on a very small scale. Nevertheless, the information gathered is likely to prove very useful.’ ‘As you may have heard, the existing workforce is soon to be reduced by 40 per cent. The management is nevertheless committed to maintaining the present level of production.’ See also HOWEVER, THEREFORE 1
791
news
The news are never very good nowadays.
The news is never very good nowadays.
I’m looking forward to hearing a good news from you.
I’m looking forward to hearing some good news from you.
News is an uncountable noun: ‘Why do Clive’s letters never contain any news?’ There’s one piece
of news that I’m sure will interest you.’
792
next
I’m looking forward to seeing you on next Sunday.
I’m looking forward to seeing you next Sunday.
I have some spare time this week but the next week I’ll have to start work.
I have some spare time this week but next week I’ll have to start work.
See Language Note at TIME
793
nice
There is a nice and quiet room where I do my work.
There is a nice quiet room where I do my work.
The room where I do my work is nice and quiet.
Two-part adjectival phrases with nice such as ‘nice and quiet and ‘nice and clean’ are always
placed after the noun they modify: The house is always nice and tidy.’ Do not use and after nice
when it comes in front of a noun: ‘Right now I could do with a nice cold drink.’
794
night
I don’t like driving in the night.
I don’t like driving at night.
It was about nine o’clock in the night when we heard a noise outside.
It was about nine o’clock at night when we heard a noise outside.
See Language Note at TIME
‘Where were you in the night of June 3rd?’ he asked.
‘Where were you on the night of June 3rd?’ he asked.
See Language Note at TIME
795
no matter
No matter he tries hard, he never succeeds.
No matter how hard he tries, he never succeeds.
no matter how/who/whether etc + subject + verb: ‘No matter how much you help him, he never
seems grateful.’ ‘No matter how late you set off, the roads are always busy.’ ‘No matter who you
ask, they all say the same thing.’
After the sauna they run and jump in the river, no matter if it’s freezing or not.
After the sauna they run and jump in the river, no matter whether it’s freezing or
not.
No matter they are rich or poor, they all come to us for advice.
No matter whether they are rich or poor, they all come to us for advice.
no matter + wh-word (NOT if/nothing): ‘I’m not interested in the job, no matter how much they
offer me.’ ‘No matter what you ask her to do, she’s always ready to help.’
Note that no matter whether tends to sound awkward and there are usually simpler alternatives:
‘After the sauna they run and jump in the river, whether it’s freezing or not.’ ‘Rich or poor, they all
come to us for advice.’
No matter the recession, sales remained high.
In spite of the recession, sales remained high.
No matter is always followed by a wh- clause: ‘No matter what they did, they couldn’t put the fire
out.’ ‘No matter how cold it gets, we’ll keep warm somehow.’
In front of a noun phrase, use in spite of/despite: ‘In spite of the temperature outside, we
managed to keep warm.’
796
no more
My wife had left the hotel and I no more needed a double room.
My wife had left the hotel and I no longer needed a double room.
When talking about time, use no longer (NOT no more): ‘The offices are no longer occupied.’
Note the alternative: ‘My wife had left the hotel and I didn’t need a double room any more.’
797
no one
No one of us regrets volunteering.
None of us regrets volunteering.
Not one of us regrets volunteering.
When you mean ‘not one’, use none or (for emphasis) not one: ‘None of the children could tell the
time.’ ‘Not one of the trainees has a medical background.’
No one and nobody cannot be followed by of unless the phrase introduced by of is descriptive: ‘No
one of any importance was at the meeting.’
798
no sooner
No sooner we had arrived than it began to rain.
No sooner had we arrived than it began to rain.
See Language Note at NOT
799
nobody/no one
Nobody have complained about the noise.
Nobody has complained about the noise.
When I arrived, there were nobody at home.
When I arrived, there was nobody at home.
nobody/no one + singular verb: ‘Is nobody going to help you?’
He closed the door quietly so that nobody wouldn’t hear him.
He closed the door quietly so that nobody would hear him.
See Language Note at NOT
Nobody has done something yet.
Nobody has done anything yet.
See Language Note at NOT
800
noise
I turned on the radio but there was no noise.
I turned on the radio but there was no sound.
He was woken up by the noise of broken glass.
He was woken up by the sound of broken glass.
noise = (1) loud unpleasant sounds heard as a single mass: ‘The noise of the traffic gave me a
headache.’ ‘People were making such a lot of noise that I couldn’t hear what she was saying.’ (2) a
sound that is unpleasant and/or without meaning: ‘The radio started making a funny noise.’
‘What was that noise?’
sound = something that is heard or received by the ear, especially something that you recognize or
can give a meaning to: ‘I’ve always loved the sound of a classical guitar.’ ‘I could hear the sound of
someone crying in the next room.’
I was woken up by a big noise outside the room.
I was woken up by a loud noise outside the room.
loud noise (NOT big): ‘Habitual exposure to loud noises can damage the ear.’
The restaurant was full and there was a loud noise.
The restaurant was full and there was a lot of noise.
You can talk as long as you don’t make a loud noise.
You can talk as long as you don’t make a lot of noise.
A loud noise (countable) describes what you hear when, for example, somebody slams a door or
drops a plate. To refer to continuous noise made during an activity, use noise as an uncountable
noun: ‘They don’t know the difference between music and noise.’
801
nominate
Mr Tong was nominated manager of the company in 1984.
Mr Tong was appointed manager of the company in 1984.
nominate = suggest someone for election or selection (for a job or position): ‘We need to
nominate someone to take over from Harry as our new public relations officer.’
appoint = give someone a job or position: ‘Mr H. Wilks has been officially appointed as the
society’s new public relations officer.’
802
none
I checked the essay for mistakes but I couldn’t find none.
I checked the essay for mistakes but I couldn’t find any.
See Language Note at NOT
I told the police officer that in my opinion none of the two drivers was responsible.
I told the police officer that in my opinion neither of the two drivers was
responsible.
When talking about two people or things, use neither. For three or more, use none.
803
noon
The cafeteria is always crowded in the noon.
The cafeteria is always crowded at noon.
See Language Note at TIME
North
I am now living in North England.
I am now living in the north of England.
North + noun, South + noun, etc, are mainly used in the names of countries and their internal
divisions: ‘North America’, ‘South Carolina’.
To refer to approximate locations, use the North/South, the north/south of + noun, or
northern/southern + noun, etc: They’ve bought a cottage in the south of France.’ ‘Northern
England is supposed to be colder than the South.’
804
not
He told me to not spend too long in the sun.
He told me not to spend too long in the sun.
Not and never usually go immediately in front of a to infinitive: Try not to worry about anything.’
‘It’s hard not to feel sorry for him.’
805
not only
He not only was a talented pianist but also a great composer.
He was not only a talented pianist but also a great composer.
The position of not only should be the same as the position of but also (i.e. immediately before an
object, immediately before a main verb, etc).
Compare: ‘He injured not only his shoulder but also his elbow.’ (‘his shoulder’ and ‘his elbow’ are
both objects) ‘He not only injured his back but also hurt his head.’ (‘injured’ and ‘hurt’ are both
verbs)
Not only I passed, but I got a distinction.
Not only did I pass, but I got a distinction.
See Language Note below
806
nothing
It was so dark that I couldn’t see nothing.
It was so dark that I couldn’t see anything.
See Language Note below
807
notice
I wrote him a notice saying that the package had arrived.
I wrote him a note saying that the package had arrived.
notice = a short written statement giving information or directions, usually found in a public place:
‘There was a notice on the wall saying "Private property. No parking."
note = a short informal letter or written message from one person to another: ‘Just a quick note to
say that Helen had a baby boy yesterday.’
It was so crowded that at first I didn’t take any notice of him.
It was so crowded that at first I didn’t see/notice him.
take notice of = pay attention to: ‘Nobody ever takes any notice of what I say.’
notice = become aware of; see: ‘I didn’t suspect anything until I noticed that my chequebook was
missing.’
I could notice that he was not enjoying himself.
I noticed that he was not enjoying himself.
I could see that he was not enjoying himself.
Notice is not used with can/could: ‘They were so busy that they didn’t notice how late it was
getting.’
808
now
I’m sure you’ll be happier from now.
I’m sure you’ll be happier from now on.
From now I shall make all the decisions myself.
From now on I shall make all the decisions myself.
from now on (WITH on): ‘From now on I’m going to work really hard and make sure 1pass.’
809
nowadays
People live longer in nowadays.
People live longer nowadays.
nowadays (WITHOUT in): ‘More women have executive jobs nowadays, especially in publishing.’
‘Nowadays, computer skills are essential.’
This is a major problem for nowadays society.
This is a major problem for today’s society.
Nowadays is an adverb (NOT an adjective): ‘Video cameras are very popular nowadays.’
810
number
The number of heavy smokers are decreasing.
The number of heavy smokers is decreasing.
the number of ... + singular verb: ‘The number of people claiming unemployment benefit has risen
by 5 per cent in the last three months.’
A large number of cars was parked outside the school.
A large number of cars were parked outside the school.
a number of ... + plural verb: ‘A number of viewers have complained about the excessive violence
in the film.’
Harsher punishments will not reduce the number of crime.
Harsher punishments will not reduce the number of crimes.
Harsher punishments will not reduce the amount of crime.
See Note at AMOUNT 1
In England I met a big number of women in senior positions.
In England I met a large number of women in senior positions.
a large/considerable number (NOT big): ‘A large number of fatal accidents are caused by drunken
drivers.’
811
obey
He was a good boy and obeyed to his parents all the time.
He was a good boy and obeyed his parents all the time.
obey sb/sth (WITHOUT to): ‘Those who refused to obey orders were usually shot.’
812
object
My object is to improve my English as much as possible.
My objective is to improve my English as much as possible.
object = the purpose of an action or event: ‘The object of the game is to score as many points as
possible.’ ‘Nobody knows the real object of their visit. They’re keeping it a secret.’
Objective= the thing that you are working towards and hope to achieve by the end of a course of
action: ‘The company’s long-term objective is to increase sales overseas.’ ‘The course description
began with a long list of aims and objectives.’
813
obligation
My obligations include doing the housework and picking up the children from school.
My duties include doing the housework and picking up the children from school.
obligation = moral duty or responsibility: ‘Having promised to cut taxes, the government now has an obligation to do so.’ ‘Anyone who rents a property is under an obligation to keep it clean and tidy.’ ; duty = what you have to do because it is a part of your job or because you think it is right: ‘One of the principal’s main duties is to improve the quality of teaching and learning in the school.’
814
oblige
You can’t oblige children to study if they don’t want to.
You can’t force children to study if they don’t want to.
If someone makes you do something that you do not want to do, they force/compel you to do it
(or make you do it): ‘They forced him to hand over the money by threatening to kill him.’
In order to pay the hospital bill, it obliged me to sell my car.
In order to pay the hospital bill, I was obliged to sell my car.
be/feel obliged to do sth (= have to/feel that you have to do something): ‘Doctors are obliged to
keep their patients’ records secret.’ ‘Since the temperature outside was below freezing, I felt
obliged to invite them in.’
815
obtain
It has taken women a long time to obtain equality.
It has taken women a long time to achieve equality.
With these new policies the government hopes to obtain economic stability.
With these new policies the government hopes to achieve economic stability.
When you are talking about something that takes a long time and a great amount of work or
effort, use achieve (NOT obtain): ‘By the end of the course you really feel that you have achieved
something.’ ‘The company intends to achieve all these goals within the next five years.’ ‘Her only
purpose in life was to achieve stardom.’
Where did you obtain the ticket?
Where did you get the ticket?
He’s been trying to obtain a part-time job .
He’s been trying to get a part-time job.
Obtain is mainly used in formal styles: ‘Information about visas and passports can be obtained
from your local library.’ The usual word for this meaning is get: ‘How long does it take to get a
visa?’
816
occasion
The scholarship provided me with my first occasion to travel overseas.
The scholarship provided me with my first opportunity to travel overseas.
I never had occasion to take the Proficiency examination.
I never had a chance to take the Proficiency examination.
occasion = the time when an event happens: ‘I’ve been to Rome on several occasions.’ (= several
times)
opportunity = a time when it is possible to do something that you want to do: ‘The meeting on
Tuesday will be a good opportunity for you to make some new contacts.’ ‘She has considerable
ability and should be
given more opportunity to use it.’
chance = an informal word for ‘opportunity’: ‘If I had the chance, I’d like to be an airline pilot.’ ‘I’ve
been so busy this morning I haven’t had a chance to sit down.’ See also OPPORTUNITY
I remember that in the last occasion he had a very bad cold.
I remember that on the last occasion he had a very bad cold.
on a particular occasion (NOT in): ‘I am honoured that you have invited me to join you on this
special occasion.’
817
occupation
It used to be difficult for women to get good occupations.
It used to be difficult for women to get good jobs.
The important thing is to be happy in your occupation.
The important thing is to be happy in your job.
See Language Note below
818
occur
The concert will occur at eight o’clock next Tuesday.
The concert will take place at eight o’clock next Tuesday.
Occur is usually used in connection with unplanned events: ‘Many of the serious accidents that
occur are caused by human error.’ ‘Tornadoes occur when a warm weather front meets a body of
very cold air.’
For planned events, use take place: ‘The wedding will take place at StAndrew’s church.’
You’d better tell them exactly what occurred.
You’d better tell them exactly what happened.
Occur is used mainly in formal styles: ‘These violent incidents frequently occur without any
warning.’
The usual word is happen: ‘The accident happened just outside my house.’
o’clock
It was twenty past four o’clock when the train arrived.
It was twenty past four when the train arrived.
They finished their dinner at about 7.30 o’clock.
They finished their dinner at about 7.30.
Do not use o’clock for times that include minutes or parts of an hour.
Compare: ‘It’s four o’clock.’ ‘It’s ten past four.’
By seven o’clock p.m. the child had been found.
By seven p.m. the child had been found.
By seven o’clock (in the evening) the child had been found.
Use EITHER o’clock OR a.m./p.m. (NOT both).
I start work at 9.00 o’clock.
I start work at 9 o’clock.
Do not use o’clock after 6.00,7.00 etc. Compare: ‘8 a.m.’, ‘8.00’, ‘8.00 a.m.’, ‘8 o’clock’.
819
of
The demonstration was attended by several hundreds of people.
The demonstration was attended by several hundred people.
Over a thousand of people have died from the disease.
Over a thousand people have died from the disease.
See Language Note at HUNDRED
Arian is one of the oldest towns of Belgium.
Arlon is one of the oldest towns in Belgium.
We stayed in one of the most beautiful villages of Kent.
We stayed in one of the most beautiful villages in Kent.
To refer to the country/region/area etc where something is or takes place, use in (NOT of): ‘the
longest river in Brazil’, ‘the second largest city in Spain’, ‘one of the most picturesque spots in the
whole of Tuscany’
I arrived in London on 25th of November.
I arrived in London on 25th November.
You say ‘the 25th of November’ or ‘November the 25th’ but you write ‘25th November’ or
‘November 25th’ (WITHOUT the or of).
The old man didn’t give me a minute of peace.
The old man didn’t give me a minute’s peace.
When you say how long something lasts, you usually use -’s/-s’ (NOT of): ‘a week’s holiday’, ‘three
months’ maternity leave’
Note however the pattern with of + v-ing: ‘After two months of doing nothing, I decided it was
time to get on with my life.’
The bicycle of Paul was too big for me.
Paul’s bicycle was too big for me.
This coat isn’t mine. It’s of a friend.
This coat isn’t mine. It’s a friend’s.
To say that something belongs to or is connected with someone, use -’s/-s’ (NOT of).
Compare: ‘Pam’s husband’, ‘Julia’s house’, ‘her father’s car’, ‘a beginners’ course in French
conversation
He is a good friend of them.
He is a good friend of theirs.
A friend of you phoned and wants you to call her.
A friend of yours phoned and wants you to call her.
When the meaning is possessive, use of + mine/yours/his/hers/ours/theirs. Compare:
‘That’s a photograph of him.’ (= showing him), ‘That’s a photograph of his.’ (= belonging to or
taken by him)
The scenery reminded her of a painting of Renoir.
The scenery reminded her of a painting by Renoir.
To introduce the person who wrote/painted/composed something, use by: ‘I’m reading a novel by
Thomas Hardy.’
Compare: ‘a painting of Renoir’ (= a picture that someone painted of Renoir) ‘a painting by Renoir’
(= a picture that Renoir painted)
820
off
See COURSE 3
Don’t forget to off the lights before you go out.
Don’t forget to turn off the lights before you go out.
turn off/on (or switch off/on) a light, television, electric kettle etc: ‘Let’s turn on the radio and
listen to the news.’
The glass fell off of the table.
The glass fell off the table.
off + sb/sth (WITHOUT of): ‘I wish he’d wipe that silly smile off his face.’
821
offence
Public caning would deter other students from doing the offence.
Public caning would deter other students from committing the offence.
commit an offence (NOT do): ‘He is accused of committing various minor offences.’
822
offer
Her parents have offered me to go on holiday with them.
Her parents have invited me to go on holiday with them.
offer to do sth = express willingness to do something: ‘She’s offered to help me.’
invite sb to (do) sth = ask someone if they would like to come to a party, wedding etc, or join you
in a social activity: ‘Have you invited Mark and Valerie to the party?’
The old man then offered something to eat to the little boy.
The old man then offered the little boy something to eat.
The usual pattern is offer sb sth (offer + indirect object + direct object): ‘He offered me a job.’
‘They’ve offered Maria a place on the intermediate course.’
Use offer something to someone only when the direct object is a pronoun or is much shorter than
the indirect object: ‘She offered it to George but he didn’t want it.’ ‘I offered the apple to the first
child that could answer my question.’
823
officer
Most of my friends got jobs as shop assistants or officers.
Most of my friends got jobs as shop assistants or office workers.
offer to do sth = express willingness to do something: ‘She’s offered to help me.’
invite sb to (do) sth = ask someone if they would like to come to a party, wedding etc, or join you
in a social activity: ‘Have you and Valerie to the party?’
A British Airways officer told us that there was a delay.
A British Airways official told us that there was a delay.
official = a person with a position of authority in an organization: ‘WHO officials are monitoring
the spread of the disease.’
824
official
She is good at organizing people without seeming arrogant or official.
She is good at organizing people without seeming arrogant or officious.
official = done by or connected with a person or group in authority; formal: ‘an official letter’, ‘an
official inquiry’, ‘official approval’ officious (expressing dislike or disapproval) = too eager to give
orders or make people keep to rules which are unimportant: ‘An officious little man at the check-in
insisted that my luggage was half a kilo overweight
825
often
Often people stop smoking when they are ill.
People often stop smoking when they are ill.
He often has said that he would like to be young again.
He has often said that he would like to be young again.
The trains often are late.
The trains are often late.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
826
oily
The chips were so oily that I couldn’t eat them.
The chips were so greasy that I couldn’t eat them.
The usual word for describing food that is unpleasant because it is cooked and presented with too
much fat or oil is greasy: ‘I ate the tomato and left all the greasy chips.’
827
old
He is married to a twenty years old American girl.
He is married to a twenty-year-old American girl.
Eight-years-old Sarah had a few surprises up her sleeve.
Eight-year-old Sarah had a few surprises up her sleeve.
Use years old after the verb be: ‘Sarah is eight years old.’
In front of a noun, use a compound adjective (WITH two hyphens and a singular noun): ‘a threeweek-old baby’, ‘a ten-year-old daughter’ Nouns of measurement (‘year’, ‘week’, ‘gram’, ‘mile’
etc) are always singular when used in compound adjectives: ‘a ten-second silence’, ‘a six-minute
wait’, ‘a five-mile race’.
He fell in love with a young girl of nineteen years old.
He fell in love with a young girl of nineteen.
noun + of + number: ‘a child of five ‘ , ‘a man of sixty’
Compare: ‘The girl was nineteen years old.’
The old should not be brushed aside by society.
The elderly should not be brushed aside by society.
To refer to old people in general, use the elderly: ‘The building has been converted into a
retirement home for the elderly.’
828
on
On last Monday we went to the Railway Museum.
Last Monday we went to the Railway Museum.
On every Saturday morning we go shopping.
Every Saturday morning we go shopping.
See Language Note at TIME
I was surprised to see your picture on the newspaper.
I was surprised to see your picture in the newspaper.
You see a report, advertisement, photograph, etc in a newspaper or magazine (NOT on) : ‘I came
across the article in this month’s edition of Woman’s World.’
829
once
You may remember we had once a long talk in the hotel bar.
You may remember we once had a long talk in the hotel bar.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
Once it will stop raining, we can go out.
Once it stops raining, we can go out.
Once it has stopped raining, we can go out.
See Language Note at WILL
830
one
Fluency in English is one of the best qualifications you can have.
Fluency in English is one of the best qualifications you can have.
Do not use the in front of one of : ‘We stayed at one of the cheaper hotels.’ ‘She is one of the
strongest political leaders in the world today.’
The sea is one of our main source of food.
The sea is one of our main sources of food.
The noun/pronoun following one of is always plural: ‘one of my friends’, ‘one of her teachers ‘,
‘one of the biggest islands in the world’ .
One of the eggs were bad.
One of the eggs was bad.
She is one of those children who refuses to share things .
She is one of those children who refuse to share things.
After a phrase beginning with one of , the verb is singular: ‘One of the main disadvantages is the
cost of the battery.’
However when one of is followed by a relative clause, the verb in the relative clause is usually
plural: ‘He’s one of those people who are always complaining .’
In informal styles , some people use a singular verb, but careful users regard this as incorrect.
After we had been to Helen’s house, we went to Paul’s one.
After we had been to Helen’s house, we went to Paul’s.
Avoid one/ones immediately after an -’s/-s’ form, especially in formal styles : ‘No, it’s not mine it’s my wife’s .’
Compare: ‘John’s new one is the same as yours.’ (= -’s/-s’ form + adjective + noun)
If you can carry those books, I’ll bring these ones.
If you can carry those books, I’ll bring these.
This book will be of interest to all those ones involved in the tourist industry.
This book will be of interest to all those involved in the tourist industry.
Avoid ones immediately after these/those, especially in formal styles: ‘Within this group, there
are those who are willing to take risks and those who are more cautious.’
Compare: ‘These plastic ones are cheaper.’ (= these/those + adjective + noun)
All the shoe s and handbags they sell are handmade ones.
All the shoes and handbags they sell are handmade.
Avoid one/ones after an adjective which can be used on its own, especially in formal styles: ‘The
new proposals are impractical.’
Compare: ‘We could do with a new one/some new ones.’
British children have more opportunities than Tunisian ones.
British children have more opportunities than Tunisian children.
Young people learn more quickly than older ones.
Young people learn more quickly than older people.
Ones is usually used to refer to things: ‘Rechargeable batteries are more expensive than ordinary
ones.’ ‘The red ones are fine, but I prefer the white ones.’ Ones may also be used to refer to
particular people: ‘The older children laughed but the younger ones were scared.’
In general statements about groups of people, ones is usually avoided: ‘French students have to
work harder than British students .’
One mustn’t waste ones time when there is so much to do.
One mustn’t waste one’s time when there is so much to do.
Getting married for economic reasons is not a good start to ones married life.
Getting married for economic reasons is not a good start to one’s married life.
The possessive form is one ‘s (WITH ‘s): ‘It is difficult to estimate one’s chances of success.’ See
also IT’S
One cannot succeed unless he works hard.
One cannot succeed unless one works hard.
In British English (unlike American English) it is not possible to change from one to he/his/her etc.
Note, however, that most speakers find the repetition of one awkward and try to avoid it: ‘One
cannot succeed without working hard.’ ‘Success calls for a lot of hard work.’ See also Language
Note at HE
831
one another
The children get on well one another.
The children get on well with one another.
They had good opinions one another.
They had good opinions of one another.
You use prepositions in front of one another (pronoun) in the same way as you use prepositions in
front of him, her, us, etc. Compare: ‘I often write to her.’ ‘We often write to one another.’ See also
EACH OTHER
832
only
The level of pollution can only be reduced by the introduction of new laws.
The level of pollution can be reduced only by the introduction of new laws.
To avoid confusion in written English, only is usually placed as near as possible to the word or
phrase that it modifies. Compare: ‘Alison only posted the letter to Mr Jones.’ (= she didn’t write it)
‘Alison posted only the letter to Mr Jones.’ (= she didn’t post the other letters)
In spoken English the position of only is less important because the speaker uses stress to make
the meaning clear.
If you only would stay longer, your English would improve.
If only you would stay longer, your English would improve.
If you would only stay longer, your English would improve.
When if only is used to express a wish, the two words usually stay
together: ‘If only I could stop smoking.’ Sometimes, only is placed in front of the main verb ‘If I
could only stop smoking.’
Only when it started to rain he noticed that he had left his raincoat somewhere.
Only when it started to rain did he notice that he had left his raincoat
somewhere.
See Language Note at NOT
833
open
I got out of bed and opened the radio to listen to the news.
I got out of bed and turned/switched on the radio to listen to the news.
turn on/off (or switch on/off) a light/radio/television (NOT open/close): ‘The children are not
allowed to turn on the television without permission.’
If anyone tried to open a new topic, she would immediately interrupt.
If anyone tried to introduce a new topic, she would immediately interrupt.
introduce a (new) topic/subject/argument (NOT open): ‘You can’t introduce new material in the
last section of a report.’
834
opened
I couldn’t buy a newspaper because the shop wasn’t opened.
I couldn’t buy a newspaper because the shop wasn’t open.
Use opened to describe an action and open to describe a state.
Compare: ‘The shop was opened at 8 a.m. and stayed open until 6 p.m.’
835
operate
Have you heard what happened to the last patient he operated?
Have you heard what happened to the last patient he operated on?
My niece was recently operated for appendicitis.
My niece was recently operated on for appendicitis.
operate on sb: ‘He is too weak at the moment to be operated on.’
836
operation
My mother is taking an operation tomorrow.
My mother is having an operation tomorrow.
Mr Barrett is going to get an operation on his back.
Mr Barrett is going to have an operation on his back.
See Language Note at DO
837
opinion
According to Henry’s opinion, less money should be spent on weapons.
In Henry’s opinion, less money should be spent on weapons.
According to Henry, less money should be spent on weapons.
according to sb: ‘According to Peter, deforestation is a very serious problem.’ in sb’s opinion (NOT according to ... opinion): ‘In Peter’s opinion, deforestation is a very serious problem.’
They are not afraid of saying their opinions.
They are not afraid of expressing their opinions.
express/give your opinion (NOT say): ‘The newspapers express a wide range of political opinions.’
838
opportunity
There is an opportunity that David’s father will come tonight.
There is a chance that David’s father will come tonight.
When you talk about the likelihood of something happening, use chance (NOT opportunity): ‘I
think she has a good chance of passing.’ ‘There’s very little chance that anyone has survived the
crash.’
Compare: ‘Tomorrow’s test will be an opportunity/a chance for you to find out how much you
know.’ (= a particular time when something is possible)
839
oppose
I oppose to violence.
I am opposed to violence.
oppose sth (WITHOUT to ) = think that something is wrong and try to stop it from happening or
being accepted: ‘Many leading scientists vigorously opposed Darwin’s ideas.’
be opposed to sth = feel strongly that something is wrong: ‘Many people are opposed to the use
of fur by the clothing industry.’
840
opposite
People have opposite opinions about this matter.
People have different opinions about this matter.
The Americans I met were opposite to what I had imagined.
The Americans I met were very different from what I had imagined.
My own country and the USA are totally opposite of each other.
My own country and the USA are totally different (from each other).
Use opposite and the opposite of only when you mean that two things are as different as it is
possible to be: ‘I thought that the medicine would make him sleepy, but it had the opposite effect.’
‘The opposite of long is short.’ ‘The two men went off in opposite directions.’ (= one went to the
left and one to the right)
To describe people’s opinions , life styles , ways of thinking etc, the usual word is different: ‘These
two schools of thought are completely different.’
On the wall opposite to the door, there was a large painting.
On the wall opposite the door, there was a large painting.
The phone booths are opposite of the tube station.
The phone booths are opposite the tube station.
One thing is opposite another thing (WITHOUT to/of): ‘The nearest bus stop is opposite the bank.’
The opposite woman was knitting a cardigan.
The woman opposite was knitting a cardigan.
When opposite means ‘facing the speaker or the person/place being talked about’, it comes
immediately after the noun: ‘The house opposite is also for sale.’
841
or
At night we used to go out with our friends or stayed at home listening to music.
At night we used to go out with our friends or stay at home listening to music.
When you use or to join two verbs, both verbs should have the same form. Compare: ‘We used to
go to the cinema or watch the television.’ ‘We went to the cinema or watched the television.’
I think the microphone or the recording mechanism are broken.
I think the microphone or the recording mechanism is broken.
When each of the nouns joined by or is singular, the verb is usually singular: ‘It is important to
understand what one’s son or daughter expects out of life.’
842
oral
Her oral English is very fluent and clear.
Her spoken English is very fluent and clear.
The use of oral to mean ‘spoken’ is restricted to certain technical phrases used in education: ‘oral
skills’, ‘an oral examination’.
843
order
I was so excited that I forgot to order them to check that the camera was working
properly.
I was so excited that I forgot to ask them to check that the camera was working
properly.
You cannot order someone to do something unless you have the power to do so. Compare: ‘The
teacher ordered the child to sit down. ‘ ‘She asked her teacher if he could check her homework .’
I’ve ordered two seats for tomorrow night’s performance.
I’ve booked two seats for tomorrow night’s performance.
See Note at BOOK
Turning on the radio, I noticed immediately that it was out of order.
Turning on the radio, I noticed immediately that it was not working properly.
The phrase out of order is used mainly on notices stating that things such as public telephones ,
ticket machines, photocopiers etc are not working.
844
original
Archaeological treasures should be kept in the original country.
Archaeological treasures should be kept in the country of origin.
country of origin = the country where something was made or discovered: ‘They refuse to release
these antiquities until the country of origin is properly established.’
Many craftsmen have given up their original skills to work in factories.
Many craftsmen have given up their traditional skills to work in factories.
She was wearing an original Japanese ‘yukata’.
She was wearing a traditional Japanese ‘yukata’.
original =(1) completely new: ‘Nobody expected that the bikini, with its daringly original design.
would catch on as it did.’
(2) the one that exists first (usually followed later by other ones): ‘The original edition contained
only 170 pages.’ ‘The tennis court to the side of the house was the idea of the original owner.’
Traditional = done or used by a group or society for a very long time: ‘The dancers were wearing
traditional African dress.’ ‘Kumar gave the traditional Hindu greeting.’
845
originate
One of our teachers originates from Scotland.
One of our teachers comes from Scotland.
Originate is used in connection with things, ideas, customs etc (NOT people): ‘No one really knows
how the solar system originated.’
If you are born in and/or grow up in a particular place, town, country etc, you come from that
place: ‘Where does Agneta come from Sweden or Norway?’
‘Alcohol’ , ‘alcove’ and ‘sofa’ originate in Arabic.
‘Alcohol’, ‘alcove’ and ‘sofa’ come from Arabic.
Words that enter a language from other languages come from (or are derived from) those
languages: ‘The name ‘terrier’ comes from the Latin word ‘terra’ meaning ‘the earth’.’
846
other
Go and play with some others children , she said.
Go and play with some other children,  she said.
When used before a noun, other never has an s: ‘Do you have any other shoes besides the brown ones?’ ; Compare: ‘Besides the brown shoes, do you have any others?’
It tells us all about nouns , verbs, adjectives and others.
It tells us all about such things as nouns, verbs and adjectives.
Do not use and others at the end of a list of examples. In some styles it is possible to use etc for this purpose, but in formal styles it is safer to use such as (or such ... as): ‘Candidates’ performance in the test was influenced by factors such as age, sex, attitude and first language.’
847
otherwise
Remember to get there early otherwise you may not get a seat.
Remember to get there early. Otherwise you may not get a seat.
Remember to get there early or you may not get a seat.
Unlike or, otherwise is an adverb (NOT a conjunction): ‘I’m glad that you told me about the show
being cancelled. Otherwise I’d have travelled all the way to Glasgow for nothing.’
848
out
When we came out the restaurant, it was half past eleven.
When we came out of the restaurant, it was half past eleven.
She suddenly stood up and ran out from the room.
She suddenly stood up and ran out of the room.
verb of movement + out: ‘I’m afraid Mr Baker has just gone out.’ verb of movement + out of +
somewhere (NOT out or out from) : ‘I’ve just seen Mr Baker going out of the building.’ In informal
styles, out is sometimes used instead of out of : ‘I saw someone jump out the window.’ However,
careful users consider this to be incorrect.
out of date
Doctors read these journals so as not to become out of date.
Doctors read these journals so as to keep up to date.
Out of date (before a noun out-of-date) is used in connection with information, ideas, knowledge,
technology etc (NOT people): ‘A significant proportion of what children are studying at school will
be out of date within the space of a few years.’
If you always have the latest information about something, you keep up to date (with
developments) or keep abreast (of developments): ‘Lecturers are expected to keep abreast of
developments in their subject areas.’
849
outdoor
She makes the dog stay outdoor du ring the summer.
She makes the dog stay outdoors during the summer.
Outdoor (WITHOUT s) is an adjective: ‘He enjoys the outdoor life.’
Outdoors (WITH s) is an adverb: ‘He likes to work outdoors.’
850
outdoors
There are lots of outdoors activities in and around Coimbra.
There are lots of outdoor activities in and around Coimbra.
See Note at OUTDOOR
851
outside
The new airport makes it easy to go outside the country.
The new airport makes it easy to get out of the country.
I’ll be going outside London for a few days.
I’ll be going out of London for a few days.
When you mean ‘away from’, use (get/go) out of (NOT outside): ‘It does you good to get out of
the city now and again.’ ‘Without a tales passport, he would never have been able to get out of
the country.’
She was listening outside of the door.
She was listening outside the door.
In British English, outside is not used with of: ‘You aren’t allowed to park outside the bank.’
In American English, both outside and outside of are used.
852
overall
His idea of a good time included the sun, the sea, jokes, laughter, and overall
friendship.
His idea of a good time included the sun, the sea, jokes, laughter, and above all
friendship.
overall =(adv) (1) including everything: ‘How much will the holiday cost, overall?’ (2) generally:
‘Overall, the weather in this area is good.’
overall = (adj) including everything: ‘We’re concerned about the overall effect of these films on
younger viewers.’
above all = most importantly: ‘Get plenty of sleep, eats lots of good food, and above all try to
relax.’ ‘The sort of person we are looking for must be well qualified, suitably experienced, easy to
get on with, and above all able to work independently.’
In spite of the film’s many faults , in the overall it’s worth seeing.
In spite of the film’s many faults, on the whole it’ s worth seeing.
England is okay on the overall, although some places are very dirty.
England is okay on the whole, although some places are very dirty.
on the whole = in general: ‘On the whole, the people I’ve been dealing with have been very
cooperative.’
Compare: ‘Her overall command of English is excellent.’ ‘On the whole her command of English is
excellent.’
The important thing is your score in overall.
The important thing is your overall score.
Overall may be used as an adjective or adverb (NOT as a noun after in/on): ‘The examination
counts for 60 per cent of your overall grade.’ ‘You would have done better overall if you hadn’t
spent so long on the essay question.’
853
overdue
I suddenly realized that my driving licence was overdue.
I suddenly realized that my driving licence had expired.
Be/become overdue is used of payments, library books, video films that you have rented etc:
‘Even if the books are only one day overdue, you still have to pay a fine.’
Expire is used of a licence, contract, membership card, etc: ‘I wanted to pay by Visa but my card
had expired.’
854
overnight
I recently stayed an overnight at you r hotel.
I recently stayed overnight at your hotel.
I am writing to complain about my overnight at your hotel.
I am writing to complain about the night I spent at your hotel.
Overnight is used as an adverb and adjective (NOT as a noun): ‘I missed the connecting flight and
had to stay at the airport overnight.’ ‘If we travel overnight, we’ll be there in time for breakfast.’
‘The overnight coach arrives in London at six in the morning.’
855
owing to
They come here looking for work owing to the wages are higher.
They come here looking for work because the wages are higher.
Owing to is a preposition (NOT a conjunction) : ‘Owing to various political and economic factors ,
the land reclamation project has been discontinued.’
856
own
I had the whole beach for my own.
I had the whole beach to myself.
Own (= belonging to you, or only to be used by you) is used either in front of a noun, or in the
phrase of your own: ‘I wish I had my own car.’ ‘I wish I had a car of my own.’
have sb/sth (all) to yourself = be the only person or people in a place , using something, talking to
someone, etc: ‘After the children had gone, we had the house all to ourselves.’
He’s decided to resign and work for his own.
He’s decided to resign and work for himself.
They want everything for their own.
They want everything for themselves.
do/want sth for yourself (NOT for your own): ‘He’s kept all the money for himself.’
Compare: ‘He prefers to work on his own.’ (= without anyone’s help; alone).
I didn’t have a room for my own but had to share one.
I didn’t have a room of my own but had to share one.
of your own (NOT for) : ‘Timothy has now decided that he wants a bicycle of his own.’
I now have enough money to buy an own car.
I now have enough money to buy my own car.
Own always follows my/her/their/Jill’s etc (NOT an) ‘their own children ‘, ‘her own flat’ , ‘Tina ‘s
own radio’.
857
pace
I want to learn English in my own pace.
I want to learn English at my own pace.
You do something at your own pace (NOT in/by etc): ‘With computer assisted language learning,
students can work at their own pace.’
858
package
I bought six eggs and a package of tea.
I bought six eggs and a packet of tea.
He smokes about one package a day.
He smokes about one packet a day.
See Language Note below
There are so many unnecessary packages nowadays.
There is so much unnecessary packaging nowadays.
See Language Note below
I enclose a stamped addressed envelope and a cheque for £5 for postage and
package.
I enclose a stamped addressed envelope and a cheque for £5 for postage and
packing.
See Language Note below
859
painful
The operation was successful but I still feel very painful.
The operation was successful but I still feel a lot of pain.
painful = causing pain: ‘The finger I trapped in the door is still very painful.’ ‘The child wriggled
free and gave me a painful kick on the ankle.’
860
pair
The old pair next door have been married for 65 years.
The old couple next door have been married for 65 years.
Pair usually refers to things (e.g. ‘a pair of scissors/socks’) or to two people who are seen (doing
something) together: ‘It’s about time the pair of you did some work.’ ‘The German pair need just
two more points for the match.’ Pair also refers to two animals that stay together and produce
young: ‘a pair of swifts with a family to feed’.
The usual word for a husband and wife (or two people in a similar relationship) is couple: ‘Married
couples should benefit from the new tax legislation.’
Have you always worn a pair of glasses?
Have you always worn glasses?
Pair of is usually used for individual reference (NOT general reference): ‘I’ve bought two pairs of
shoes for the children.’
Compare: ‘They sell shoes and handbags.’ (NOT ‘pairs of shoes’)
861
paper
Each of us was given a clean paper to write on.
Each of us was given a clean sheet of paper to write on.
When it refers to the material that you write on, paper is an uncountable noun: ‘The printer has
run out of paper.’ ‘On the back of the piece of paper she had written her address.’
862
pardon
I asked the teacher if I could be pardoned for a few minutes.
I asked the teacher if I could be excused for a few minutes.
pardon = (formal) forgive: ‘I’m sure they will pardon the occasional mistake.’
excuse = give someone permission to stay away from school, work etc, or leave a classroom,
meeting etc: ‘Can I be excused from swimming today please? I’ve got a cold.’
I beg your pardon, but I was very busy and couldn’t spare the time.
I’m sorry, but I was very busy and couldn’t spare the time.
I’d like to beg your pardon because I was late.
I’m sorry I was late.
Please forgive me for being late.
I beg your pardon is used (1) to apologize to a stranger because you have bumped into them by
accident, sat in their seat by mistake, etc: ‘I beg your pardon. I didn’t know the table was
reserved.’
(2) to politely ask someone to repeat what they have said: ‘Does this bus go to Marble Arch?’ ‘I
beg your pardon?’ ‘This bus, does it go to Marble Arch?’
(3) when someone has said something that makes you feel surprised, shocked, angry etc: ‘Who’s
that man with the long nose?’ ‘I beg your pardon! That happens to be my husband.’
Note that in formal situations you can use excuse/forgive me instead of I’m sorry: ‘Please excuse
me for taking so long to answer your letter.’
863
parking
The car was parking outside the flat all night.
The car was parked outside the flat all night.
Use park when you are talking about what a driver does: ‘You’re not allowed to park (your car) in
the city centre.’ ‘Where’ve you parked (your car)?’
To talk about a vehicle that has been left somewhere and is not moving, use parked: ‘That Ford
van has been parked there for over a week.’ ‘The street is always full of parked cars.’
It took me an hour to find a parking.
It took me an hour to find a parking space.
What the town needs is an underground parking.
What the town needs is underground parking.
What the town needs is an underground car park.
a parking space/place = a place in a street, car park etc where a vehicle can be left: ‘My first
attempt to back into the parking space was a disaster.’
a car park (AmE parking lot) = a large open area or building where cars can be left: ‘The
supermarket has its own car park.’
parking (uncountable noun) = space(s) where vehicles can be left: ‘Parking is available at
Whitefriars Street.’ ‘There’s ample parking in front of the hotel.’
864
part
A part of the difficulty was caused by her poor English.
Part of the difficulty was caused by her poor English.
It is unusual to use a before part of unless part of has an adjective in front of it. Compare: ‘Lack of
money was part of the problem.’ ‘Lack of money was a large part of the problem.’
The country is vast and occupies the most part of the continent.
The country is vast and occupies most of the continent.
For the most part of his life he was devoted to his work.
For most of his life he was devoted to his work.
most of (NOT most part of): ‘She spent most of the morning in bed.’
Note however the fixed phrase for the most part (= almost completely; mainly): ‘The machines
have for the most part been replaced.’
He refuses to part from his old camera.
He refuses to part with his old camera.
part from a person: ‘The two sisters were parted from each other when they were sent to
different schools.’
part with a thing: ‘Getting them to part with the money won’t be easy.’
The annual celebration takes part in Valencia on 19th March.
th
The annual celebration takes place in Valencia on 19 March.
The election will take part within the next two years.
The election will take place within the next two years.
When you take part in an activity, you do it together with other people: ‘Altogether there are
seventy-three competitors taking part in the race.’ ‘She’s been invited to take part in a TV quiz
programme.’
take place = (of a planned event) happen: ‘The next meeting of the Nature Society will take place
on Tuesday 3rd March.’
Did you take part in Yolanda’s party on Saturday?
Did you go to Yolanda’s party on Saturday?
go to a party/wedding etc (NOT take part in): ‘We can’t go to the party if we haven’t been
invited.’
I think you ought to take part in a club.
I think you ought to join a club.
join a club/society etc (NOT take part in): ‘Guy is thinking about joining the drama society.’
865
participate
Teams from all Asian countries will participate the event.
Teams from all Asian countries will participate in the event.
participate in sth = (formal) take part in: ‘Our students are encouraged to participate in extracurricular activities.’
866
partly
Putting fluoride in the water may solve the problem partly.
Putting fluoride in the water may solve the problem to some extent.
Putting fluoride in the water may partly solve the problem.
At the end of a clause use to some extent/to a certain extent or to some degree/to a (certain)
degree (NOT partly). Compare: ‘I partly agree with him.’ ‘I agree with him to some extent.’
867
party
On Christmas Day we always make a big party.
On Christmas Day we always have a big party.
Next Saturday we’re celebrating a small party at John’s house.
Next Saturday we’re having a small party at John’s house.
The party was being made at a friend’s house.
The party was being held at a friend’s house.
have/hold/throw a party (NOT make/celebrate): ‘Let’s have a party and invite all our friends.’
celebrate Christmas, the New Year, someone’s birthday, retirement, promotion etc: ‘Next month
we’re having a party to celebrate our sixth wedding anniversary.’
A party is held somewhere (NOT made/celebrated): ‘Where is the garden party being held?’ See
Language Note at DO
868
pass
We like to pass our holidays near the sea.
We like to spend our holidays near the sea.
We passed the night in a cheap hotel.
We spent the night in a cheap hotel.
I passed Christmas in London.
I spent Christmas in London.
You spend your holidays/a period of time somewhere (NOT pass): ‘We spent a lazy afternoon
down by the river.’
When pass is used in connection with time, it is usually intransitive: ‘Two weeks passed and there
was still no reply.’
It has passed almost a year since we first met each other.
It’s almost a year since we first met each other.
We first met each other almost a year ago.
Almost a year has passed since we first met each other.
In sentences about the passage of time, the subject of pass is always a time phrase: ‘Another five
minutes passed and the taxi still didn’t appear.’ Note however that this pattern is used mainly in
narrative styles.
869
pass up
The essays have to be passed up by next Monday.
The essays have to be handed in by next Monday.
When you give a piece of written work to a teacher, lecturer, etc, you hand it in: ‘All assignments have to be handed in by Monday 3 October.’
870
past
I was 8 years old when my father past away.
I was 8 years old when my father passed away.
Several taxis past me without stopping.
Several taxis passed me without stopping.
The past tense and past participle of the verb pass is passed (NOT past): ‘She’s passed all her
exams.’ ‘I passed him in the corridor but he didn’t say anything.’ ‘These remedies have been
passed down from one generation to the next.’
Past is (1) an adjective: ‘For the past week he’s been ill in bed.’ (2) a preposition: ‘She walked past
me very quickly.’ (3) an adverb: ‘She walked past very quickly.’ (4) a noun: ‘He never speaks about
his past.’
Past is NOT used as a verb.
It was a little past five when the game finished.
It was just after five when the game finished.
Use past when you mention exact times: ‘eight minutes past three’, ‘a quarter past two’, ‘twentyfive past seven’. Otherwise use just after, shortly after, etc: ‘Her flight arrived shortly after
midnight.’
871
pattern
Their daily pattern doesn’t include enough exercise.
Their daily routine doesn’t include enough exercise.
To refer to the things that you do every day, usually in the same order, use routine: ‘The trip to
Oslo was quite exhausting, but at least it provided an escape from the same old routine.’
872
pay
‘Who paid the tickets?’ I asked.
‘Who paid for the tickets?’ I asked.
pay (an amount of money) for sth: ‘Let me pay for the meal this time.’ ‘I can’t afford to pay $200
for a suit.’ ‘How much did she pay for the car?’
Very few office workers get a good pay.
Very few office workers get good pay.
Pay is an uncountable noun: ‘They’ve given him a week’s leave without pay.’
873
pay back
The manager offered to pay me back the cost of the camera.
The manager offered to refund the cost of the camera.
The manager offered me a refund of the cost of the camera.
pay back money that was borrowed: ‘He’s promised to pay me back when he gets his next salary.’
refund money that was paid for something: ‘If it doesn’t work, bring it back and we’ll refund your
money.’ ‘She assured me that my $500 deposit would be refunded.’
a refund (of sth): ‘You’ll receive a refund of up to £50 if the concert is cancelled.’ ‘Season ticket
holders are entitled to a full refund.’
874
payment
Or Schneider charges a high payment but he is very good.
Or Schneider charges a high fee but he is very good.
payment = an amount of money that is paid for something: ‘I had to get rid of the car because I
couldn’t keep up the payments.’
fee = an amount of money paid to a doctor, lawyer, or other professional person: ‘The fee for one
hour’s private tuition is $60.’
For the first month the payment by the hour is 650 yen.
For the first month the hourly rate is 650 yen.
hourly/daily/weekly rate = the amount that someone charges or is paid for each hour/day/week
that they work: ‘He charges an hourly rate of $600 plus expenses.’
875
peculiar
She said she liked the jumper because the colour was very peculiar.
She said she liked the jumper because the colour was very unusual.
peculiar = strange, especially in a surprising or unpleasant way: ‘I’m not sure about this cheese.
The taste is a bit peculiar.’ ‘Just because I don’t like computers, everyone thinks I’m a bit peculiar.’
unusual = uncommon or rare: ‘Where did you buy this cheese? The taste is very unusual.’ ‘At one
time it was unusual for women to enter politics.’
876
people
After a hard day, all people need to relax.
After a hard day, everyone needs to relax.
In Avanos every people smile at you.
In Avanos everyone smiles at you.
everybody/everyone (NOT all/every people): ‘Everyone needs someone to love.’ See also
PERSON1
Peoples come from all over the world to visit the city.
People come from all over the world to visit the city.
a people (countable) = a race: ‘His dream is that the peoples of the world will one day unite.’
people (plural noun) = men, women and children: ‘He finds it difficult to get along with people.’
There was few people at the funeral.
There were few people at the funeral.
I think people who does these things should be punished.
I think people who do these things should be punished.
People is a plural noun and takes a plural verb: ‘People have been very kind to me.’
877
percentage
Only a small percentage of the windmills still works.
Only a small percentage of the windmills still work.
If the noun after percentage of is plural, the verb is plural: ‘A high percentage of these school
leavers have no qualifications.’
878
perfect
I am pleased to say that the tape recorder now works perfect.
I am pleased to say that the tape recorder now works perfectly.
Perfect is an adjective: ‘My grandmother enjoys perfect health.’
Perfectly is an adverb: The baby is perfectly healthy.’
879
perform
In his last film he performed a middle-aged school teacher.
In his last film he played a middle-aged school teacher.
play a particular part or role in a film, play etc (NOT perform): ‘What’s the name of that goodlooking American actor who played Butch Cassidy?’
Compare: ‘She has never performed in front of a live audience before.’ ‘Tonight’s concert will be
performed by the Boston Symphony Orchestra.’
880
perhaps
Perhaps I will even decide to get married after all.
I may even decide to get married after all.
Perhaps it will be a good chance for you to have a rest.
It may be a good chance for you to have a rest.
May/might usually sounds more natural than perhaps ... will: ‘My mother may need to have an
operation.’ ‘You might feel that the course is too difficult.’
881
period
These traditions took a long period of time to evolve.
These traditions took a long time to evolve.
She needs somewhere to live for a period of time.
She needs somewhere to live for a while.
a (long/short) time/while (WITHOUT period): ‘You can stay here for a while, if you like.’ ‘Learning
a foreign language can take a very long time.’
882
permission
To get a job in Switzerland, foreigners need a special permission.
To get a job in Switzerland, foreigners need special permission.
Permission is an uncountable noun: ‘If you want to put up a tent, you’ll have to get the farmer’s
permission.’ ‘Nobody is allowed to leave early without permission.’
883
perhaps
Perhaps I will even decide to get married after all.
I may even decide to get married after all.
Perhaps it will be a good chance for you to have a rest.
It may be a good chance for you to have a rest.
May/might usually sounds more natural than perhaps ... will: ‘My mother may need to have an
operation.’ ‘You might feel that the course is too difficult.’
884
period
These traditions took a long period of time to evolve.
These traditions took a long time to evolve.
She needs somewhere to live for a period of time.
She needs somewhere to live for a while.
a (long/short) time/while (WITHOUT period): ‘You can stay here for a while, if you like.’ ‘Learning
a foreign language can take a very long time.’
885
permission
To get a job in Switzerland, foreigners need a special permission.
To get a job in Switzerland, foreigners need special permission.
Permission is an uncountable noun: ‘If you want to put up a tent, you’ll have to get the farmer’s
permission.’ ‘Nobody is allowed to leave early without permission.’
Eventually he gave me the permission to stay at home.
Eventually he gave me (his) permission to stay at home.
(their/his mother’s/the headmaster’s) permission but NOT the permission: ‘I’m sure that they’ll
let you use the library but it’s better to have official permission.’
886
permit
Overpopulation doesn’t permit these countries to develop.
Overpopulation stops/prevents these countries from developing.
Permit is used in situations where there is a rule, law or authority that controls what people can do: The law permits foreign investors to own up to 25% of British companies.’ ‘As children we were never permitted to leave the table until everyone had finished.’
887
person
Very soon every person will have a portable computer.
Very soon everyone will have a portable computer.
Any person can vote in the election.
Anyone can vote in the election.
everyone/anyone etc (NOT every/any person): ‘Not everyone has leadership potential.’ See also
PEOPLE 1
Her husband talked so much that all the other persons in the room had to keep
quiet.
Her husband talked so much that all the other people in the room had to keep
quiet.
The plural of person is usually people: ‘Thousands of people had gathered outside the palace to
catch a glimpse of the new princess.’
Persons is used mainly in public notices and other formal contexts: ‘Seating capacity - 12 persons.’
888
personal
The meals can be improved if the canteen personal agree to cooperate.
The meals can be improved if the canteen personnel agree to cooperate.
See Note at PERSONNEL
889
personality
He is a man of strong personality who will fight for what is right.
He is a man of strong character who will fight for what is right.
When talking about a person’s moral quality, use character (NOT personality). Compare: ‘For a
career in sales, you need a forceful personality.’ ‘People of character and integrity never turn their
backs on the truth.’
890
personnel
Her books deal mainly with personnel relationships, especially marital problems.
Her books deal mainly with personal relationships, especially marital problems.
personal /ˈpəːsənəl/ (adjective) = concerning or belonging to one person in particular; individual
or private: ‘The novel is based on the author’s own personal experience.’ ‘Our bank manager
assured us that she would give the matter her personal attention.’
personnel /pɜrsə’nel/ /(noun) = all the people employed in a company, office etc: ‘In the event of
a fire, all personnel must report to the reception area.’ ‘The personnel officer wants you to call
and arrange an interview.’
891
phenomena
This phenomena is called ‘culture shock’.
This phenomenon is called ‘culture shock’.
Phenomena is the plural of phenomenon: ‘The breakdown of family life is a relatively recent
phenomenon.’ ‘Mathematics explains a wide variety of natural phenomena.’
892
phone
She phoned to the hospital to ask about her husband.
She phoned the hospital to ask about her husband.
Just phone to 555-879 and I’ll come and get you.
Just phone 555-879 and I’ll come and get you.
phone/telephone/ring/call a person/place/number (WITHOUT to): ‘You must promise to phone
me as soon as you get there.’
Note that speakers of American English do not use ring for this meaning.
I talked to him for a longtime by phone last night.
I talked to him for a long time on/over the phone last night.
In British English the phrase is (talk/speak to sb) on/over the phone (NOT by phone): ‘He didn’t
want to discuss it over the phone.’
Note that in American English both by phone and on/over the phone are used, although by
phone is not common.
893
picnic
We decided to make a picnic in the field opposite the house.
We decided to have a picnic in the field opposite the house.
See Language Note at DO
On our day off, we went picnic.
On our day off, we went on a picnic.
go on/for a picnic (NOT go picnic/go to/on picnic: ‘The last time I went on a picnic I was chased
by a bull.’ ‘Lucy loves going on picnics.’
894
piece
The pencils were free and so I took two pieces.
The pencils were free and so I took two.
Piece is NOT used with countable nouns. Compare: ‘a piece of cheese’, ‘a piece of furniture’, ‘a
piece of luck’.
895
pillow
The pillows had been removed from the sofa and scattered on the floor.
The cushions had been removed from the sofa and scattered on the floor.
pillow = a bag-like object filled with soft material that you rest your head on when you are in bed:
‘No sooner had his head touched the pillow than he was sound asleep.’
cushion = a bag-like object filled with soft material that you put on a chair, sofa etc to make it
more comfortable: ‘Would you like a cushion for your back?’
896
pity
We both felt pitiful when we saw how lonely she was.
We both felt pity for her when we saw how lonely she was.
See PITY 1
897
pity
When I saw these pity children, my eyes filled with tears.
When I saw these pitiful children, my eyes filled with tears.
pity (noun) = a feeling that you have when you feel sad and sorry for someone because of their
situation: ‘They don’t want out pity. They need our help.’
pitiful (adjective) = causing people to feel sad and sorry: ‘The horses were in a pitiful condition,
thin and covered with sores.’
She expected me to feel pity on her and help her.
She expected me to take pity on her and help her.
She expected me to feel pity for her and help her.
take pity on: ‘Eventually a kind motorist took pity on us and offered us a lift.’
feel pity for: ‘Being a widow, she expects you to feel pity for her.’
898
place
I hope there’s enough place in the wardrobe for all your clothes.
I hope there’s enough room in the wardrobe for all your clothes.
place = an area or a particular part of an area: ‘The best place to sit is right in front of the stage.’
room (or space) = an empty part of something that can be used or filled: ‘There’s room in the back
seat for all three of you.’
I left the coat in my room but it may not be in that place any longer.
I left the coat in my room but it may not be there any longer.
there =in/to that place: ‘It’s a long way to New Zealand but I’d love to go there.’
When I lived at home, my father did not let me go to any place on my own.
When I lived at home, my father did not let me go anywhere on my own.
anywhere = in/to any place: ‘Have you seen my comb anywhere?’
He was looking for a place where to spend the night.
He was looking for somewhere to spend the night.
There was no place where to park.
There was nowhere to park.
somewhere/nowhere/anywhere + to-v : ‘She needs somewhere to stay.’
Compare: ‘He was looking for a place where he could spend the night.’
899
planet
I was born in a little planet in outer space.
I was born on a little planet in outer space.
on a planet (NOT in): ‘Is there life on other planets?’
900
plate
You’ll be able to try some of the local plates.
You’ll be able to try some of the local dishes.
See Language Note on next page
901
play
I’ve been playing piano since I was eight.
I’ve been playing the piano since I was eight.
In British English the phrase is play the piano/guitar/violin etc (WITH the) : ‘She’s learning to play
the flute.’
In American English the is sometime omitted.
902
pleasant
We would be very pleasant if you could attend.
We would be very pleased if you could attend.
pleasant = (of a person) polite and friendly: ‘I’ve always found Bob very pleasant to work with.’
pleased = happy, satisfied: ‘I was very pleased to hear that you’re feeling better.’ ‘She’s pleased
that the exams are over.’
903
please
Please, if you cannot come, let me know as soon as possible.
Please let me know as soon as possible if you cannot come.
Please does not usually come immediately before a subordinate clause (‘if you cannot come’).
Note the usual positions: ‘Please let me know as soon as you can.’ ‘Will you please let me know as
soon as you can?’ ‘Will you let me know as soon as you can, please?’
The main film was proceeded by a short cartoon.
The main film was preceded by a short cartoon.
proceed = (begin and) continue: ‘After a five-minute delay, the lecture proceeded.’ ‘According to
latest reports, negotiations are proceeding smoothly.’
precede = come, go, or happen (immediately) before someone or something: ‘Churchill was a
much stronger leader than the man who preceded him.’ ‘The snowfall was preceded by a sudden
drop in temperature.’
904
process
The production of plastic paper clips has seven processes.
The production of plastic paper clips has seven stages.
process = a series of actions or operations that are performed in order to make or do something:
‘The process begins with the gathering of the coffee beans.’
stage = one of the actions or operations in a process: ‘During the next stage in the process the
beans are dried.’
905
professor
He has applied for a job as a professor in a language school.
He has applied for a job as a teacher in a language school.
In Britain a professor is the most senior teacher in a university: ‘My professor was the famous
historian A.J.P. Taylor.’
In the United States a professor is any university teacher who has a second degree.
906
profit
The company has gained enormous profits in recent years.
The company has made enormous profits in recent years.
make a profit (NOT gain): ‘Derek would never sell you anything without making a good profit.’
‘The company made a profit of $53 million last year.’
907
progress
The company has gained enormous profits in recent years.
The company has made enormous profits in recent years.
make a profit (NOT gain): ‘Derek would never sell you anything without making a good profit.’
‘The company made a profit of $53 million last year.’
908
progress
We have made a great progress in the field of medicine.
We have made great progress in the field of medicine.
See Language Note at SCENERY
909
prohibit
Even the teachers were prohibited to walk on the lawn.
Even the teachers were prohibited from walking on the lawn.
prohibit sb from doing sth: ‘The government intends to prohibit shopkeepers from selling
cigarettes to children.’
910
promotion
In some professions it is still difficult for women to get promotions.
In some professions it is still difficult for women to get promotion.
In phrases such as get promotion, apply for promotion and chance/s of promotion, the noun
promotion is usually uncountable: ‘Women should have the same chance of promotion as their
male counterparts.’
Compare: ‘With so many staff leaving, we can expect a few more promotions.’
911
proof
These bones are a proof that the animals really existed.
These bones are proof that the animals really existed.
Today we have scientific proofs that tobacco is harmful.
Today we have scientific proof that tobacco is harmful.
Proof (= evidence) is usually an uncountable noun: ‘Investigators now have proof of his
involvement in the arms deal.’
912
propaganda
The television company receives most of its money from propaganda.
The television company receives most of its money from advertising.
Propaganda is used in a political context: ‘Roadside hoardings displayed anti-Western
propaganda.’ ‘In times of war the public are bornbarded with propaganda.’
Advertising is used in a commercial context: ‘Car manufacturers spend billions of dollars a year on
advertising.’
913
property
The police eventually found most of the stolen properties.
The police eventually found most of the stolen property.
Property (= things that belong to someone) is an uncountable noun: ‘Personal property should not
be left unattended.’
914
proportion
The country’s small food supply is not proportion about the size of the population.
The country’s food supply is small in proportion to the size of the population.
Something is small/large etc in proportion to/with something else: ‘Her feet are very small in
proportion to the rest of her body.’
915
proposal
I propose you to talk to John about it.
I suggest that you talk to John about it.
propose = formally suggest an idea, plan or course of action, especially to an official person or
group that has the power to decide: ‘May I propose that we postpone further discussion of this
matter until our next meeting.’
A friend of mine has proposed me a job in his restaurant.
A friend of mine has offered me a job in his restaurant.
He proposed to put them up for a few days.
He offered to put them up for a few days.
offer = (1) tell someone that they can have something if they want it: ‘He offered me a cup of tea.’
‘She was offered a job on a local newspaper.’(2) tell someone that you are willing to do
something: ‘He offered to drive me back to my hotel.’
I would like to propose to double the number of computers in each office.
I would like to propose that the number of computers in each office is/be
doubled.
I would like to propose doubling the number of computers in each office.
I propose the library opening hours to be increased.
I propose that the library opening hours are/be increased.
propose to do sth = intend: ‘We would like to know what action you propose to take.’
propose that sb does/(should) do sth (or propose doing sth) = formally suggest: ‘He has proposed
that each existing member accept responsibility for recruiting two new members.’ ‘In the end it
was proposed that the students concerned should be given a verbal warning.’
916
prospect
There is little prospect for the situation to improve.
There is little prospect of the situation improving.
prospect of doing sth/sth happening: ‘With all the political unrest, there is little prospect of
attracting foreign investment.’
917
protest
She told the shop assistant that she wanted to protest about the cardigan she had bought.
She told the shop assistant that she wanted to complain about the cardigan she had bought.
protest = say or do something to show that you strongly disagree with something: ‘The crowds were protesting against the government’s purchase of nuclear weapons.’ ; complain = say that you are annoyed or unhappy about something: ‘He’s always complaining about the weather.’ ‘If you think you’ve been overcharged, you should complain to the manager.’
918
provide
My job provides me the opportunity to meet new people every day.
My job provides me with the opportunity to meet new people every day.
provide sb with sth: ‘Money from the aid programme will be used to provide the farmers with
better tools.’
The government does not provide enough food to the population.
The government does not provide enough food for the population.
I was very pleased with the room you provided to me.
I was very pleased with the room you provided for me.
provide sth for sb/sth: ‘The hotel also provides facilities for business meetings ‘and conferences.’
In my view, a father should provide his family.
In my view, a father should provide for his family.
provide for sb = support someone by paying for all their food, clothes etc: ‘How can you provide
for your children when you don’t have a job?’
919
publicity
I think governments should ban the publicity of tobacco.
I think governments should ban the advertising of tobacco.
If something is given publicity, there is an attempt to inform the public about it: ‘Scandals
involving prominent politicians always receive widespread publicity.’
Advertising is the activity of trying to persuade people to buy something: ‘The big software
companies spend millions each year on advertising.’
920
punishment
The police are in favour of stricter punishments.
The police are in favour of harsher punishments.
severe/harsh punishment (NOT strict/strong): ‘A prison sentence seems a very severe
punishment for tax evasion.’
921
pure
We opened the window to get some pure air.
We opened the window to get some fresh air.
I always keep a few bottles of pure water on the boat.
I always keep a few bottles of fresh/drinking water on the boat.
Use pure when you mean ‘completely clean’: ‘The water in the lake is so pure that you can drink
it.’
The usual word for describing air and water is fresh: ‘Her doctor has prescribed a good holiday
and lots of fresh air.’
922
purpose
The purpose why I have come here is to improve my English.
The reason why I have come here is to improve my English.
The purpose of staying in the United States is to complete my PhD.
My reason for staying in the United States is to complete my PhD.
purpose = what you hope to achieve by doing something; aim: ‘The main purpose of the trip is to
see Helen’s parents.’ ‘Their purpose in coming here is to promote Australian universities.’
reason = the thing that causes someone to do something: ‘The reason why she left him was
probably to do with his drinking problem.’ ‘Did they give you a reason for rejecting your
application?’
923
put off
Once indoors, he immediately put off his wet clothes and dried himself.
Once indoors, he immediately took off his wet clothes and dried himself.
See Language Note at WEAR
924
qualification
I am taking another course to improve my qualification.
I am taking another course to improve my qualifications.
qualifications (plural) = all the examination passes, skills and experience that you need for a
particular job: ‘I’d like to apply for the job but I don’t have the right qualifications.’
qualification = a degree, diploma, certificate etc: ‘Do you have a postgraduate qualification?’
Speakers of American English use degree, diploma, certificate etc for this meaning.
925
quality
Switzerland produces goods with a very high quality.
Switzerland produces goods of a very high quality.
of (a) high/low/poor quality (NOT with): ‘Japanese electrical products tend to be of much higher
quality.’
926
quarrel
Sometimes we quarrel about which programme to watch .
Sometimes we argue about which programme to watch.
When people quarrel they argue angrily, especially for a long time about something that is
unimportant: ‘If you two boys don’t stop quarrelling, you can go straight to bed.’
People can argue without feeling angry or looking silly: ‘Most evenings we would sit in the kitchen
arguing about politics.’
927
quarter
He served his country for over quarter of a century.
He served his country for over a quarter of a century.
a quarter (of sth): ‘He’s had almost a quarter of the cake all to himself.’
928
quicker
We are able to exchange information quicker than in the past.
We are able to exchange information more quickly than in the past.
Quicker is sometimes used as an adverb, but only in informal styles.
More quickly is always acceptable: ‘He spoke more quickly than usual.’
929
quickly
I went quickly to the nearest phone booth. 
I ran to the nearest phone booth.
Go quickly usually sounds unnatural. The same meaning can be expressed by verbs such as hurry, rush, run, dash, sprint, etc: ‘As soon as we saw the rain clouds, we hurried back home.’
930
quite
This year the work at university is quite harder than last year.
This year the work at university is rather harder than last year.
Before comparative forms use rather, slightly, somewhat or (especially in informal styles) a bit, a
little (NOT quite): ‘My new office is rather smaller than my old one.’ ‘He’s slightly older than me.’
Note however the common exception: ‘Yes, I’m feeling quite better, thank you.’ (= completely
recovered)
In the circumstances, it was a quite rude answer.
In the circumstances, it was quite a rude answer.
When quite means ‘rather/fairly’, it comes in front of a/an: ‘The survey covered quite a wide
range of newspapers.’ ‘On the whole, it was quite a good essay.’
Compare: ‘a rather/fairly/pretty rude answer’
There are quite many foreign students in London.
There are quite a lot of foreign students in London.
quite a lot (of) NOT quite many/much: ‘Quite a lot of time has already been wasted.’ I’ve made
quite a lot of new friends.’
931
radio
I always listen to the news in the radio.
I always listen to the news on the radio.
On radio there was a current affairs programme.
On the radio there was a current affairs programme.
On the radio, on (the) television (NOT in): ‘It’s strange to hear your own voice on the radio:
.’What’s on television tonight?’
932
rain
It was heavy rain yesterday.
It rained heavily yesterday.
There was some heavy rain yesterday.
When you begin with it, use rain as a verb: ‘It’s raining again!’ ‘This month it’s rained nearly every
day.’
When you begin with there, use rain as a noun: ‘There’s been a lot of rain this month.’
Two minutes later it started pouring rain.
Two minutes later it started pouring with rain.
The next day the sky poured heavily.
The next day it poured with rain.
it + pour with rain: ‘Whenever I forget my umbrella, it pours with rain:’ ‘We can’t go out - it’s
pouring with rain.’
933
rainfall
There was no rainfall for over three months.
There was no rain for over three months.
It didn’t rain for over three months.
rainfall = the amount of rain that usually falls in an area during a certain period: ‘The whole
region has a very low rainfall at this time of the year.’
Note that rainfall is mainly used in technical styles.
934
rainy
The afternoon was very rainy.
The afternoon was very wet.
It’s rainy again today.
It’s wet again today.
It’s raining again today.
When rainy is used it generally comes in front of words like day, afternoon, Sunday and season
(NOT after a verb): ‘The baby was born on a rainy Sunday in June.’ ‘When does the rainy season
begin?’
The more usual word is wet: ‘Apart from a couple of wet afternoons, the weather was fine.’ ‘If it’s
wet tomorrow, we’ll go on Monday instead.’
935
raise
When I was a child, I used to raise my own flowers in a corner of the garden.
When I was a child, I used to grow my own flowers in a corner of the garden.
raise plants, vegetables, animals etc, especially on a farm to sell as food: ‘He grew up in Nebraska
where his parents raised chickens.’
grow plants, flowers, vegetables, etc, in a garden for pleasure: ‘This year I thought I’d try growing
a few tomatoes.’
They offered to raise up my salary.
They offered to raise my salary.
raise sth (WITHOUT up): ‘If you want to ask a question, just raise your hand.’ ‘The age of
retirement should be lowered, not raised.’
The cost of living has raised by 20 per cent this year.
The cost of living has risen by 20 per cent this year.
Sales raised rapidly.
Sales rose rapidly.
The rain had caused the water level to raise.
The rain had caused the water level to rise.
Raise (raising, raised, raised) is a transitive verb: ‘They wouldn’t dare to raise taxes just before an
election.’
Rise (rising, rose, risen) is intransitive: ‘The divorce rate has risen steadily over the last forty
years.’ ‘Prices rose again last month.’
There has been an enormous raise in house prices.
There has been an enormous rise in house prices.
a raise = (American English) an increase in wages or salary: ‘The State Government simply can’t
afford to give all teachers a raise.’
a rise = an increase in quantity, cost, price, salary etc: ‘For those on low incomes, another rise in
the cost of living could be devastating.’
936
rank
After dealing with customer enquiries for a year I was promoted to a higher rank and given my own office.
After dealing with customer enquiries for a year I was promoted to a more senior position and given my own office.
Rank usually refers to someone’s position in the army, navy, police force etc, where there are fixed levels of authority such as sergeant or captain ‘She joined the police force in 1990 and quickly rose to the rank of sergeant.’
937
rapid/rapidly
These new trains are very rapid.
These new trains are very fast.
I rapidly took the gun out of my pocket.
I quickly took the gun out of my pocket.
When used in connection with movement, rapid and rapidly usually refer to something that
happens at a very fast rate: ‘She could hear rapid footsteps approaching.’ ‘The patient often
develops a fever and breathing becomes rapid.’
Note that these words are mainly used to describe the speed with which something changes,
develops, spreads etc: ‘Investors have profited from the country’s rapid economic growth.’
‘Unemployment has been increasing rapidly over the past 8 years.’
938
rare
Water is very rare in some parts of the country.
Water is very scarce in some parts of the country.
If certain things are rare there are only a few of them in existence: ‘Rare coins are usually worth a
lot of money.’ A rare event is one that hardly ever happens: ‘I was lucky enough to witness one of
her rare public performances.’
To describe something that is usually common but for some reason is difficult to obtain at a
particular time or in a particular place, use scarce: ‘After the war, food and clothing were scarce.’
I think that my name is rare.
I think that my name is unusual.
In San Francisco I saw some rare architecture.
In San Francisco I saw some unusual architecture.
If something is different from what is usual, it is unusual: ‘The bread had an unusual flavour.’ ‘Kit.
That’s an unusual name.’
It is not rare that women have a job nowadays.
It is not unusual for women to have a job nowadays.
not unusual (for sb) to do sth (NOT not rare): ‘It’s not unusual to see business people cycling to
work these days.’
939
rather
The bed was rather comfortable.
The bed was quite comfortable.
The weather is rather good today.
The weather is quite good today.
When rather means ‘to a small extent’, it is usually used with words that express negative
qualities: ‘The bed was rather uncomfortable.’ ‘The lesson was rather boring.’ ‘He’s always been
rather lazy.’
When rather is used with words that express positive qualities, it makes the quality stronger:
‘These cakes are rather nice! Try one!’
They rather violent films to romantic ones.
They prefer violent films to romantic ones.
They’d rather see violent films than romantic ones.
I rather take him to somewhere less crowded.
I’d rather take him to somewhere less crowded.
I prefer to take him to somewhere less crowded.
When you mean ‘prefer’, use prefer/would rather/would prefer (NOT rather on its own): ‘She
says she’d rather speak to you herself about it.’
I’d rather prefer just to lie on the beach.
I’d rather just lie on the beach.
I’d prefer just to lie on the beach.
Do not use rather and prefer together: ‘If the weather’s fine, we’d rather play tennis.’
I told her I would rather to go by train than to fly.
I told her I would rather go by train than fly.
I would rather going abroad for my holidays.
I would rather go abroad for my holidays.
would rather do sth (NOT to do or doing): ‘They’d rather wait and see what happens.’
940
reach
When the blue car reached to the corner, it stopped.
When the blue car reached the corner, it stopped.
reach sth (WITHOUT to/at): ‘Eventually the two sides reached an agreement.’ ‘We reached
London just after 3 o’clock.’
941
react/reaction
It’s time the government reacted on the crisis.
It’s time the government reacted to the crisis.
Their reaction on the article was predictable.
Their reaction to the article was predictable.
react/reaction to sth (NOT on/at): ‘People reacted to the speech in different ways.’ ‘Reactions to
the news of the merger were less positive than expected.’
942
realize
The criminal mind is not always easy to realize.
The criminal mind is not always easy to understand.
I didn’t realize the meaning of ‘junk mail’.
I didn’t understand the meaning of ‘junk mail’.
See Language Note below
The school year is divided into three terms, as you realize.
The school year is divided into three terms, as you know.
Nobody realized whether he was coming.
Nobody knew whether he was coming.
See Language Note below
Our own mistakes are sometimes difficult to realize.
Our own mistakes are sometimes difficult to recognize.
I’m sure you will realize the song when you hear it.
I’m sure you will recognize the song when you hear it.
See Language Note below
The headmaster realized his threat and sent the children home .
The headmaster carried out his threat and sent the children home.
Many people in developing countries do not realize family planning.
Many people in developing countries do not practise family planning.
When realize means ‘make something actually happen or become real’, it is usually used with
words such as ambition, intention, expectation, hope, dream, fear: ‘I feel confident that the high
expectations I have of my new job will be realized.’
943
really
That’s really a good idea.
That’s a really good idea.
That really is a good idea.
It was only a short trip but we had really a good time.
It was only a short trip but we had a really good time.
It was only a short trip but we really had a good time.
The position of really (= very) is a matter of emphasis. Very often it comes immediately before the
adjective or adverb it modifies: ‘some really good news’, ‘a really old car’. Otherwise, it is usually
placed immediately in front of the main verb: ‘You really fooled me.’ ‘We’re really enjoying
ourselves.’
To his great amazement, little Nicola really won the race.
To his great amazement, little Nicola actually won the race.
Really and actually are sometimes interchangeable: ‘She sold the piano for a lot more than it was
actually/really worth.’
When you mean ‘strange as it may seem’, use actually (NOT really): ‘Instead of running away as
he normally does, he actually offered to stay and help.’
944
reason
What was the reason for the traffic jam?
What was the cause of the traffic jam?
See Note at CAUSE 1
My reason of coming here is to improve my English.
My reason for coming here is to improve my English.
There are several good reasons to have children.
There are several good reasons for having children.
reason for (doing) sth: ‘He wanted to know the reason for your absence.’ ‘What reasons do you
have for thinking that?’
The main reason because I am here is to study for my Master’s degree.
The main reason why I am here is to study for my Master’s degree.
My main reason for being here is to study for my Master’s degree.
The weather here is always warm and this is the reason because there are so many
public swimming pools.
The weather here is always warm and this is (the reason) why there are so many
public swimming pools.
reason why (NOT because/how): ‘Most of you are aware of (the reason) why I’ve called this
meeting.’ reason for doing sth: ‘Most of you are aware of my reason for calling this meeting.’
My reason for not buying the car was because it was too expensive.
My reason for not buying the car was that it was too expensive.
the/sb’s reason ... is that (NOT is because): ‘Her reason for going all the way to the Bahamas is
that she wants some winter sunshine.’
I don’t agree with them by many reasons.
I don’t agree with them for many reasons.
The closing date for applications was last Saturday and by this reason we cannot
offer you a place on the course.
The closing date for applications was last Saturday and for this reason we cannot
offer you a place on the course.
for ... reason/s (NOT by): ‘For these reasons next year’s rice harvests are likely to be very
disappointing.’
945
reasonable
I was far too upset and emotional to make a reasonable decision.
I was far too upset and emotional to make a rational decision.
reasonable = fair, sensible or acceptable: ‘Dividing up the work equally seems like a very
reasonable decision.’ ‘They’ll accept any reasonable offer.’
rational = produced by means of careful, logical thinking: ‘There must be some rational
explanation - things can’t just disappear!’
She usually gets reasonable good marks.
She usually gets reasonably good marks.
When you mean ‘fairly/quite’, use reasonably (adverb): ‘The team played reasonably well on
Saturday, but something was missing in the attack.’
946
recall
May I recall you what happened that day?
May I remind you of what happened that day?
recall (fairly formal) = remember: ‘I really can’t recall what his wife looks like.’
remind = cause (someone) to remember: ‘The painting reminded me of my last holiday in Ball.’
‘Remind me to buy a new toothbrush while we’re out.’
947
recent
Over the recent 30 years there has been a great deal of industrial development.
Over the last 30 years there has been a great deal of industrial development.
When you mention a number, use last (NOT recent). Compare: ‘In recent months house prices
have fallen.’ ‘Over the last 12 months house prices have fallen.’
Tennis has become popular in Germany in the recent years.
Tennis has become popular in Germany in recent years.
Recent years the crime rate has increased.
In recent years the crime rate has increased.
in recent weeks/months/years: ‘Flight cancellations have increased in recent weeks.’
948
recognize
On the plane home, I suddenly recognized that I had left my coat at the hotel.
On the plane home, I suddenly realized that I had left my coat at the hotel.
See Language Note at REALIZE
949
recommend
I recommend you a walk along the Seine.
I recommend a walk along the Seine.
I wouldn’t recommend to let your children watch it.
I wouldn’t recommend that you let your children watch it.
I wouldn’t recommend letting your children watch it.
recommend sth: ‘Can you recommend a good hotel?’
recommend that: ‘My accountant recommends that I should open an offshore account.’ ‘We
recommend you choose your wedding ring about three months in advance.’ ‘They recommend
that 100 be regarded as a minimum number.’
recommend doing sth: ‘I’d never recommend sending a young child to boarding school.’
British English also uses recommend sb to do sth: ‘I wouldn’t recommend you to let your children
watch it.’
950
reference
In reference to your letter of 6th September, I am pleased to confirm that the books have now arrived.
With reference to your letter of 6th September, I am pleased to confirm that the books have now arrived.
with reference to sth (NOT in): ‘With reference to your recent article in Amateur-Gardening, there are one or two questions that I would like to ask.’ See also REGARD 1, REGARDING
951
refrain
We all refrained telling her what we really thought.
We all refrained from telling her what we really thought.
refrain from (doing) sth (fairly formal): ‘I suggest that you refrain from making similar statements
until you are sure of your facts.’
952
refuse
He refused their lifestyle and decided to seek a simpler alternative.
He rejected their lifestyle and decided to seek a simpler alternative.
I refuse the idea that men and women are psychologically different.
I reject the idea that men and women are psychologically different.
refuse = say no (when someone wants you to do or accept something): ‘Some of the staff refuse to
attend lunchtime meetings.’ ‘We can’t possibly refuse the invitation.’ ‘Simon had to refuse the job
offer because it would have meant moving house again’
reject = say that you do not support (an idea, belief, suggestion, plan, proposal, etc): ‘Vegetarians
reject the theory that you must eat meat to get all the nutrients you need.’ ‘The belief that a
woman’s place is in the home has been widely rejected.’
He felt refused by the man he admired most.
He felt rejected by the man he admired most.
If someone makes you feel that you are no longer loved, needed etc,
they reject you (and you feel rejected): ‘It’s terrible to feel rejected by someone you care for.’
953
regard
With regards to accommodation, there are several excellent hotels.
With regard to accommodation, there are several excellent hotels.
As regard our working environment, the machines make too much noise.
As regards our working environment, the machines make too much noise.
with regard to (WITHOUT s): ‘With regard to the minutes of our last meeting, may I first draw
your attention to Item 3.’
as regards (WITH s): ‘As regards transport, I would suggest that we hire a mini-bus for the days in
question.’
See also REFERENCE, REGARDING
He shows no regard to other people.
He shows no regard for other people.
regard for sb/sth (= respect for): ‘He always does a good job and I have a high regard for him.’
954
regarding
Regarding to your letter of 22 November, I have referred your query to our accounts department.
Regarding your letter of 22 November, I have referred your query to our accounts department.
regarding (WITHOUT to): ‘If you have any questions regarding any of our services, please feel free to contact me.’ See also REFERENCE, REGARD 1
955
regardless
We have to train every day, regardless the weather.
We have to train every day, regardless of the weather.
regardless of sth: ‘The school accepts all students, regardless of educational level and
background.’
956
regret
In any case I didn’t regret to stay at home.
In any case I didn’t regret staying at home.
I now regret not to have worked harder at school.
I now regret not having worked harder at school.
Regret is followed by a to-infinitive in formal letters to introduce a piece of bad news: ‘I regret to
inform you that your application for a scholarship has been unsuccessful.’
When you are talking about the past, use regret doing sth or regret that: ‘I have often regretted
leaving the police force.’ ‘I wonder if they ever regret not having gone to live abroad?’ ‘Now that it
was too late, he regretted that he hadn’t worked harder at school.’
957
related
Many of these illnesses are related with smoking.
Many of these illnesses are related to smoking.
One thing is related to another thing (NOT with): ‘Poverty is often directly related to
unemployment.’
The size of a family is deeply related to parental income.
The size of a family is closely related to parental income.
closely related (NOT deeply): ‘His thesis is that drugs, boredom and juvenile crime are closely
related.’
958
relation
I thought that offering to help him might improve our relation.
I thought that offering to help him might improve our relationship.
The relation between teachers and students is very friendly.
The relationship between teachers and students is very friendly.
See Language Note below
The new government is trying to improve its relation with America.
The new government is trying to improve relations with America.
See Language Note below
959
relax
I usually relax myself by taking a hot bath.
I usually relax by taking a hot bath.
See Language Note at MYSELF
960
rely
I think it all relies on whether you like being on your own.
I think it all depends on whether you like being on your own.
A country’s strength relies on unity.
A country’s strength depends on unity.
When you mean that one thing is decided or shaped by another thing, use depend on (NOT rely
on): ‘The cost of the trip depends on how long you go for and where you stay.’ Compare: ‘Since his
wife died, he has had nobody that he could really depend/ rely on.’
961
remark
As soon as I came in I remarked your note on the table.
As soon as I came in I noticed your note on the table.
remark = say what you think or have noticed about someone or something: ‘ "There’s a strange
smell in here," she remarked.’ ‘Sarah remarked that the fire was going out, but nobody seemed to
care.’ ‘I couldn’t help remarking on his new hair style.’
notice = become aware of someone or something: ‘If we keep very quiet, they may not notice us.’
‘Have you noticed that she has stopped wearing her wedding ring?’
962
remember
‘He went to the doctor’s yesterday.’ - ‘Yes, I can remember. He looked very ill.’
‘He went to the doctor’s yesterday.’ - ‘Yes, I remember. He looked very ill.’
Can you remember me? I used to sit at the back of your class.
Do you remember me? I used to sit at the back of your class.
When remember means ‘bring the memory of a person or thing into your mind (i.e. recall) then
can/could is usually optional: ‘I (can) still remember the sad look on her face.’ Use can/could to
suggest effort: ‘I just can’t remember how the film ended.’ ‘I wish I could remember their
address."
When remember means ‘have or keep the memory of a person or thing in your mind’, it is usually
used WITHOUT can/could: ‘I hope you still remember me.’ ‘I’ll always remember the night we first
met.’
963
remind
I remind the happy days we spent together at college.
I remember the happy days we spent together at college.
remind = cause (someone) to remember something: ‘The smell of fresh coffee always reminds me
of Salvo’s.’
Compare: ‘Whenever I look at the photograph, I am reminded of the happy days we spent
together at college.’
The flowers reminded him his garden.
The flowers reminded him of his garden.
remind sb of sth = cause someone to think about something: ‘She reminds me of a girl I knew
when I was at school.’ ‘As the horse came closer, I was suddenly reminded of my first riding lesson
and a little pony called Duke.’
964
rent
If you like riding, there are horses you can rent.
If you like riding, there are horses you can hire.
How much will it cost to rent some skis?
How much will it cost to hire some skis?
See Note at HIRE 1
965
repeat
I asked her to repeat again what she had said.
I asked her to repeat what she had said.
repeat sth (WITHOUT again): ‘Would you mind repeating the question?’ , "I just can’t believe it,"
he repeated.’
If you repeat something again, you repeat it a second time.
966
replace
He offered to replace the old battery by a new one.
He offered to replace the old battery with a new one.
replace sb/sth with sb/sth (NOT by): ‘The firm has been dismissing experienced staff and
replacing them with school leavers.’
967
reply
It’s about time they replied my letter.
It’s about time they replied to my letter.
reply to a letter/invitation/advertisement etc: ‘Since Margaret hasn’t replied to the invitation,
we’re assuming she isn’t coming.’ Compare: ‘It’s about time they answered my letter.’
He replied to me that he had grown up in a family of footballers.
He replied that he had grown up in a family of footballers.
There’s going to be a storm,’ the captain replied me.
‘There’s going to be a storm,’ the captain replied.
When reply is used as a reporting verb, the ‘listener’ is not mentioned: , "I’m sure you’re right,"
George replied.’ ‘She replied that she was too busy.’
968
request
We had to request for more help.
We had to request more help.
request sth (WITHOUT for): ‘The pilot requested permission to land, but this was refused.’
Compare: ‘Our request for more help was turned down.’ (noun + for)
969
research
I’m doing a research into the causes of child abuse.
I’m doing research into the causes of child abuse.
The government invests a lot of money in scientific researches.
The government invests a lot of money in scientific research.
Research is usually an uncountable noun: ‘A team of American scientists is carrying out research
into the effects of acid rain.’
Researches (plural) is also used, especially in formal styles of British English and usually refers to a
series of related studies by a particular person or team: ‘His researches go back to the 1950s.’
‘Their more recent researches point to a decline in the mortality rate.’ The more usual word for
this meaning, especially in American English, is studies.
The project involves research of major lung diseases.
The project involves research into major lung diseases.
research into/on sth: ‘We need more research into public attitudes to nuclear power.’ ‘To date,
there has been very little research done on the subject.’
research on sb: ‘It’s a review of recent research on East Anglian fishermen.’ ‘She wishes to pursue
her research on Edward VI.’
Where is he making his research?
Where is he doing his research?
do/carry out/conduct/be engaged in research: ‘We have received a small grant to conduct
research into housing design for older women.’
See Language Note at DO
970
reserve
We’ve reserved the school hall for the evening.
We’ve booked the school hall for the evening.
I’ve finally managed to reserve a two-room house on the beach.
I’ve finally managed to book a two-room house on the beach.
reserve (or book) = arrange for a seat on a train, a seat in a theatre, a table in a restaurant etc, to
be kept for you to use at a certain time: ‘I’d like to reserve two seats in the front row for tomorrow
night’s performance.’
book = (British English) arrange for a hotel room, holiday accommodation etc, to be kept for you
to use at a certain time: ‘We’ve booked a holiday cottage in the Lake District for the first two
weeks in June.’ Note that in American English the usual word for this meaning is reserve.
971
resist
She couldn’t resist his rudeness any longer and walked out of the room.
She couldn’t stand his rudeness any longer and walked out of the room.
resist = fight against; oppose: ‘We shall resist any changes that threaten our personal freedom.’
can’t stand/bear (= be unable to tolerate): ‘I’d like to live in Africa but I don’t think I could bear
the heat.’
The old couple resisted to all the pressure that was put on them to move.
The old couple resisted all the pressure that was put on them to move.
Without weapons there was no way of resisting against the attack.
Without weapons there was no way of resisting the attack.
resist sb/sth (WITHOUT to/against): ‘By resisting the Mafia’s attempts to control the region, Dolci
was putting his own life in danger.’
Compare: ‘Much of the resistance to social and political change comes from people who oppose
the government.’ (noun + to)
972
resource
Tourism is the main resource of money for these people.
Tourism is the main source of money for these people.
Teachers are often regarded as a resource of knowledge.
Teachers are often regarded as a source of knowledge.
resource = (1) something that can be used to make a particular task or activity easier: ‘All the
teaching resources - books, cassettes and so on - are kept in a special room.’ (2) something that a
country has and uses to create wealth, such as oil or natural gas: ‘Brunei is rich in natural
resources.’
source = the place where something comes from or the thing from which we can get it: ‘We
collect the information from various sources.’ ‘Beans and lentils are a very good source of protein.’
973
respect
They should respect to each other’s opinions.
They should respect each other’s opinions.
respect sb/sth (WITHOUT to): ‘He’s not the most popular teacher, but all the students respect
him.’ ‘She always told us exactly what she thought, and we respected her for that.’
974
respectful
Some former prisoners are now respectful citizens.
Some former prisoners are now respectable citizens.
If you wish to make a good impression, you’ll have to look a bit more respectful.
If you wish to make a good impression, you’ll have to look a bit more respectable.
respectful = having or showing respect for someone, especially someone older than you or senior
to you: ‘The principal has warned him that unless he shows a more respectful attitude towards his
teachers, he will have to leave.’
respectable = displaying socially acceptable standards in appearance or behaviour: ‘Surprisingly,
many of these young offenders come from respectable families.’ ‘Nobody is going to give you a
job unless you make yourself look a bit more respectable.’
975
respond/response
I don’t care what they say, as long as I get a respond.
I don’t care what they say, as long as I get a response.
We’re still waiting for them to response.
We’re still waiting for them to respond.
Respond is a verb: ‘I’m surprised they responded so quickly.’
Response is a noun: ‘I’m surprised we got such a quick response.’ ‘In response to your last
comment, I’m afraid I don’t agree.’
976
responsible
Drugs are responsible of a large number of deaths.
Drugs are responsible for a large number of deaths.
I’m also responsible to decide on the best way to manufacture a product.
I’m also responsible for deciding on the best way to manufacture a product.
responsible for (doing) sth: ‘Who’s responsible for roof repairs - you or the landlord?’ ‘The person
responsible for leaking the story to the press has been forced to resign.’
977
result
Nowadays we hear a lot about pollution and its results on our health.
Nowadays we hear a lot about pollution and its effects on our health.
result = the situation or action that develops from a previous situation or action: ‘The result of the
crisis was that in 1649 the king was beheaded.’ ‘The anti-smoking campaign has produced
excellent results.’
effect (on sb/sth) = a change in condition that is caused by something: ‘The drug had no effect on
him.’ (= there was no change in his condition) ‘Wine always has an effect on me - it makes me
want to sing.’
978
retire
After just two months he retired and went to work for a smaller company.
After just two months he resigned and went to work for a smaller company.
retire = leave your job at the end of your working life, usually because you have reached a
particular age: ‘In the UK, men usually retire at the age of 65 and women at 60.’ ‘If you retire
early, you won’t get your full pension.’
resign = leave your job because you do not like it, because you have found a better one, etc: ‘If she
doesn’t get a salary increase, she’s going to resign.’
979
return
She returned back after half an hour.
She returned after half an hour.
When is he going to return back the money he owes you?
When is he going to return the money he owes you?
Return contains the meaning ‘back’: ‘He had to return to India to look after his mother.’ ‘He’s left
a note asking you to return the book he lent you.’
980
revenge
One day these innocent victims must be revenged.
One day these innocent victims must be avenged.
The damage done to his honour would have to be revenged.
The damage done to his honour would have to be avenged.
Revenge is usually used as a noun: ‘Once they know who planted the bomb, they are likely to seek
revenge.’ ‘She did it in revenge for all the lies he had told her.’
The verb is avenge: ‘They swore to avenge this humiliating defeat.’ ‘He considers it his duty to
avenge his brother’s death.’
I’m your twin brother and I’m here to revenge.
I’m your twin brother and I’m here to get my revenge.
He swore to revenge on the doctor.
He swore to take revenge on the doctor.
get/take (your) revenge (on sb): ‘He decided that the easiest way to get his revenge was to
disinherit her.’ ‘She has vowed to take revenge on each and every one of them.’
981
reward
Two of the German films were given rewards.
Two of the German films were given awards.
See AWARD
982
richness
They go to Hollywood in search of richness and fame.
They go to Hollywood in search of wealth and fame.
If someone has a large amount of money, property etc, they are very wealthy or have
considerable wealth (NOT richness): ‘The country’s wealth is in the hands of a small minority.’
983
right
Every child has a right of free education.
Every child has a right to free education.
Until recently, women did not have the right of voting.
Until recently, women did not have the right to vote.
right to (do) sth (NOT of): ‘The law gives you the right to remain silent.’ ‘Each partner has a right
to a company car.’
984
ring
I rang to the college to explain my absence.
I rang the college to explain my absence.
See PHONE 1
985
rise
Many firms try to survive by rising productivity.
Many firms try to survive by raising productivity.
See RAISE 3
986
risk
Not one of us would risk to go out on our own.
Not one of us would risk going out on our own.
risk doing sth (NOT to do): ‘I couldn’t risk taking a photograph – there were too many soldiers
around.’
987
rob
The wicked old man robbed all my money.
The wicked old man stole all my money.
They robbed $6000 from the office safe.
They stole $6000 from the office safe.
While he was asleep, she robbed him his watch.
While he was asleep, she stole his watch.
steal sth: ‘Someone has stolen her car.’ ‘My watch has been stolen.’ ‘The girl has obviously stolen
his heart.’
rob sb (of sth): ‘The two youths had tried to rob him, but he managed to fight them off.’ ‘The old
couple were robbed of their life’s savings.’
988
roof
In the bedroom, the roof looked very damp.
In the bedroom, the ceiling looked very damp.
The bedroom roof was one huge mirror.
The bedroom ceiling was one huge mirror.
roof = the covering on top of a building that protects it from the weather: ‘If the rain is coming in,
there must be a hole in the roof.’ ‘All the rooves were covered in snow.’
ceiling = the part of a room that is above your head: ‘When he stands on tip-toe, he can almost
touch the ceiling.’
989
row
There was already a long row of passengers waiting to be checked in.
There was already a long queue of passengers waiting to be checked in.
row = a line of people or things: ‘Along one side of the river there was a row of cottages.’ ‘When
our coach arrived at the hotel, the staff were standing in a row waiting to greet us.’ ‘At school I
always used to sit in the front row.’
queue = (British English) a line of people standing one behind the other, waiting for a bus, to buy a
ticket, etc: ‘I never go to the bank at lunchtime because of the long queues.’
990
rude
The shop assistant was very rude with me.
The shop assistant was very rude to me.
rude to sb (NOT with): ‘Why is he so rude to people?’
991
run
The car was running too fast for me to see the number plate.
The car was moving too fast for me to see the number plate.
Vehicles travel, move or go at a certain speed in a certain direction (NOT run): ‘We’re travelling at
just under 70 miles an hour.’ ‘How fast was the train going when the accident occurred?’
‘s/s’
The shopkeeper said the fault was the manufacturers responsibility.
The shopkeeper said the fault was the manufacturer’s responsibility.
When talking about something which is possessed by or connected with someone, use ‘s/s’: ‘Tim’s
new car’, ‘one of Sandra’s friends’, ‘her parents’ bedroom’, ‘our children’s education’.
The children were playing marbles on the kitchen’s floor.
The children were playing marbles on the floor of the kitchen.
The children were playing marbles on the kitchen floor.
Some of the tree’s leaves had fallen on top of the car.
Some of the leaves (of the tree) had fallen on top of the car.
The possessive ‘s/s’ is used mainly with nouns that refer to people and animals. Compare: ‘All her
father’s tools were missing.’ (NOT ‘tools of her father’) ‘The handles of the tools were all made of
wood’ (NOT tools’ handles’)
Note also that some nouns can be used like adjectives (WITHOUT ‘s/s’): ‘the kitchen floor’, ‘a
garden shed’, ‘a pencil sharpener’.
These vitamin pills are always available at the chemist.
These vitamin pills are always available at the chemist’s.
The word for the shop ends in ‘s: ‘You can buy them at the greengrocer’s in the high street.’ ‘I’ll
stop off at the butcher’s on the way home.’
992
sack
When I took the two oranges out of the sack, I discovered that one of them was bad.
When I took the two oranges out of the bag, I discovered that one of them was bad.
sack = a very large strong bag: ‘He’s hurt his back trying to lift a sack of potatoes.’ ; bag = a container made of cloth, paper, leather etc: ‘Somewhere in this shopping bag there’s a bag of sweets.’
993
safety
In Japan even the big cities are very safety.
In Japan even the big cities are very safe.
She doesn’t feel safety when she is on her own.
She doesn’t feel safe when she is on her own.
Promise that you will drive safety.
Promise that you will drive safely.
Safety is a noun (NOT an adjective/adverb): ‘The boy has been missing for six days, and there are
fears for his safety.’ ‘The firefighters rescued the children and carried them to safety.’
994
sake
I came here for my children sake.
I came here for my children’s sake.
for ... –s’/-s’ sake: ‘For Wendy’s sake, we’ve postponed the wedding until the first week in April.
She’ll be back from Italy by then.’
995
salary
The salary is 800 yen an hour.
The pay/wage is 800 yen an hour.
The basic salary is £60 per week.
The basic pay/wage is £60 per week.
A salary is the amount of money that someone earns for a year’s work, usually paid once a month
directly into their bank account: ‘I’ll pay you back at the end of the month when I get my salary.’
‘She’s on a salary of £23,000 a year.’
If someone is paid once a week, they receive wages. In the past, wages were always paid in cash:
‘He opened the envelope and counted his wages.’ When you are thinking about rates or levels of
payment (rather than actual coins and bank notes), use wage: ‘She earns a pretty good wage.’
‘They’re demanding a 20 per cent wage increase.’ ‘They’ve raised the minimum wage from $4.25
an hour to $5.50.’
Pay is a general word for the (amount of) money people get for the work they do: ‘He’s lost a
month’s pay.’ ‘They’ve been given a pay rise of £20 a week.’
Note that in informal styles these words are often used with the same meaning.
996
sale
This company prefers to employ girls to sale their products.
This company prefers to employ girls to sell their products.
Sale /seɪl/ is a noun: ‘This new law makes the sale of pirated video tapes a criminal offence.’ ‘Are
you sure the house is for sale?’
The verb is sell /sel]/: ‘They were selling all the shoes half-price.’
I bought both pairs of shoes on a sale.
I bought both pairs of shoes in a sale.
You buy something in a sale (NOT on): ‘I got the shoes half-price in a sale.’
Compare: ‘Shiseido moisturizing cream is on sale in most department stores, priced £4.99.’
997
salute
A group of officials were at the airport to salute the visitors.
A group of officials were at the airport to welcome the visitors.
salute (of members of the armed forces) make a formal sign of respect, especially by raising the
right arm: ‘Always salute a superior officer.’
welcome = meet someone when they arrive and show that you are pleased that they have come:
‘The visitors were welcomed at reception and shown where to go.’
998
same
Paris has the same level of pollution with Los Angeles.
Paris has the same level of pollution as Los Angeles.
The belt is made of the same material like the coat.
The belt is made of the same material as the coat.
There were thousands of girls in the same situation than me.
There were thousands of girls in the same situation as me.
the same ... as (NOT with/like/than): ‘She goes to the same school as my sister.’ ‘Women have
the same abilities
The breakfast was same as usual.
The breakfast was the same as usual.
The milk cartons are same as in Japan.
The milk cartons are the same as in Japan.
the same as (WITH the): ‘Her car is the same as mine.’
I’d like to visit Vietnam and Malaysia one day, as same as you.
I’d like to visit Vietnam and Malaysia one day, the same as you.
I’d like to visit Vietnam and Malaysia one day, (just) like you.
She had a face as same as a beauty queen’s.
She had a face (just) like a beauty queen’s.
the same as or (just) like (NOT as same as): ‘New York was not the same as I’d imagined. It was
worse.’
999
satisfactory
The salary they offered was more than satisfied.
The salary they offered was more than satisfactory.
Her examination results were not satisfied.
Her examination results were not satisfactory.
satisfied = (of a person) feeling pleased or content: ‘Despite the team’s convincing 3-0 victory, the
manager wasn’t satisfied.’
I was completely satisfied of the quality of her work.
I was completely satisfied with the quality of her work.
He seemed quite satisfied from my progress.
He seemed quite satisfied with my progress.
satisfied with sb/sth (NOT of/from): ‘I wasn’t at all satisfied with the quality of the workmanship.’
1000
satisfying
The service in the hotel was not at all satisfying.
The service in the hotel was not at all satisfactory.
See Note at SATISFACTORY
1001
save
The police telephoned his parents to tell them that he was save.
The police telephoned his parents to tell them that he was safe.
Save /seɪv/ is a verb: ‘This new drug is likely to save hundreds of lives.’ ‘Thanks to the local fire
brigade, all three children were saved.’
The adjective is safe /seɪf/: ‘Since the break-in, I never feel safe in the house.’ ‘You should keep
your passport somewhere safe.’
1002
say
The policeman said me to go with him to the police station.
The policeman told me to go with him to the police station.
She said to me to ask you to phone her.
She told me to ask you to phone her.
tell sb to do sth (NOT say): ‘I told them to wait for you outside.’
When he arrived, they said him that his friend had died.
When he arrived, they told him that his friend had died.
When he arrived, they said that his friend had died.
say that: ‘She said that she might be late.’
tell sb that: ‘She told me that she might be late.’
He was tired of people saying him what to do.
He was tired of people telling him what to do.
say sth: ‘I forgot to say goodbye.’
tell sb sth: ‘Eventually he told me the truth.’
In our next class we’re going to say about pollution.
In our next class we’re going to talk about pollution.
The magazine also says about English football.
The magazine also talks about English football.
talk about a particular topic (NOT say about): ‘He refuses to talk about politics.’ ‘She’s always
talking about her father’s health.’
1003
scarce
If you are interested in scarce birds, you should visit the bird garden.
If you are interested in rare birds, you should visit the bird garden.
Chocolate was very rare during the war.
Chocolate was very scarce during the war.
See Note at RARE 1
1004
scarcely
He sends them money but scarcely goes to see them.
He sends them money but rarely goes to see them.
When you are talking about frequency, use rarely (= almost never): ‘Since she moved to Glasgow,
we rarely see each other.’
1005
scene
From the window, there was a beautiful scene of the lake.
From the window, there was a beautiful view of the lake.
scene = what you see when you are in a particular place, especially something that is unusual,
shocking etc: ‘Some of the scenes inside the concentration camp were too horrific to describe.’
‘The President arrived by helicopter to witness a scene of total chaos.’
view = the whole area that you can see from somewhere, especially when you can see a long way
into the distance: ‘Remember to book a room with a view of the sea.’
The driver stopped now and again so that we could enjoy the scene.
The driver stopped now and again so that we could enjoy the scenery.
scenery = the natural features of the countryside, especially when seen from a particular place:
‘The Lake District is famous for its magnificent scenery.’
1006
scenery
What a beautiful scenery!
What beautiful scenery!
You’ll be very impressed by the beautiful sceneries.
You’ll be very impressed by the beautiful scenery.
Scenery is an uncountable noun: ‘Some of the scenery is quite spectacular.’
See Language Note below.
1007
school
Her daughter wants to leave the school and get married.
Her daughter wants to leave school and get married.
He still isn’t old enough to go to a school.
He still isn’t old enough to go to school.
Use theta/my etc only when you are talking about a particular school: ‘She goes to a very good
school.’ ‘Our two boys go to the same school.’
When you refer to school as a type of place or activity, use leave school, start school, go to
school, etc (WITHOUT the/a/my etc): ‘Most children go to primary school at the age of five.’
The same rule applies to kindergarten, college, university, church, prison, jail and (in British
English but not American English) hospital.
Compare: ‘They deserve to be put in prison.’ ‘The new prison has a special security wing for
dangerous criminals.’
See also CINEMA
Most Norwegians speak English quite well because everybody has to learn it in
school.
Most Norwegians speak English quite well because everybody has to learn it at
school.
In British English the phrase is at school (NOT in): ‘What did you do at school today?’
Note that in American English both in school and at school are used.
See VISIT 3
1008
scientific
I’m studying for a scientific degree.
I’m studying for a science degree.
He’s good at scientific subjects.
He’s good at science subjects.
The Scientific Centre is next to the History Museum.
The Science Centre is next to the History Museum.
Scientific is mainly used to describe something that is done or produced by scientists: ‘We still
don’t have a scientific explanation for these mysterious events.’ ‘Many scientific research projects
are funded by the private sector.’
When you mean ‘used for, devoted to, based on or specializing in science’, use science + noun: ‘a
new science laboratory’, ‘a science lesson’, ‘science fiction’.
1009
scissors
First you cut along the dotted line with a scissors.
First you cut along the dotted line with some scissors.
Scissors is a plural noun: ‘Do we have any sharp scissors?’ ‘I could do with a new pair of scissors.’
1010
sea
Every day Kino went out to the sea to look for the pearl.
Every day Kino went out to sea to look for the pearl.
go/head/swim/drift etc out to sea (WITHOUT the): ‘Just ten minutes after getting on board, we were heading out to sea.’
1011
search
Rescue teams are still searching survivors.
Rescue teams are still searching for survivors.
I searched my passport everywhere but couldn’t find it.
I searched for my passport everywhere but couldn’t find it.
search = (1) examine someone’s clothing or pockets to discover whether they are carrying a gun,
drugs, stolen goods etc: ‘They searched him twice but didn’t find anything.’ (2) examine an
area/house/cupboard etc carefully to try to find someone or something: ‘I’ve searched the whole
house from top to bottom.’
search for = try to find someone or something, especially by looking everywhere very carefully:
‘We spent the whole morning searching for the ring.’ ‘At this time of the year, thousands of school
leavers are searching for jobs.’
I decided to search for another hotel further down the road.
I decided to look for another hotel further down the road.
Use search for (and seek) only when someone or something is very difficult to find: ‘Investigators
are still searching for clues as to the cause of the crash.’
Otherwise, use look for: ‘I’ll stay here with the bags while you go and look for a taxi.’ ‘If you’re
looking for some new shoes, you should try Clinkard’s.’
1012
seat
Let’s go and seat out in the garden.
Let’s go and sit out in the garden.
seat /siːt/ is a noun: ‘You should book your seat two weeks in advance.’
sit /sɪt/ is a verb: ‘My legs were aching but there was nowhere to sit.’
1013
seaweed
The first diver reappeared covered in seaweeds.
The first diver reappeared covered in seaweed.
seaweed is an uncountable noun: ‘Can you really eat seaweed?’
1014
sea
He sat there all morning seeing the planes taking off.
He sat there all morning watching the planes taking off.
The teacher told us to see what he was doing.
The teacher told us to watch what he was doing.
see = notice something with your eyes, especially without concentrating or paying attention: ‘Did
you see anyone go out?’ Turn the light on if you can’t see.’
watch = look at someone or something and pay careful attention, especially for a long time: ‘She
watched the man with interest as he made his way through the crowd.’ ‘After dinner we usually
sit down and watch the news.’
I’m sending you the magazine so you can see by yourself how beautiful the country
is.
I’m sending you the magazine so you can see for yourself how beautiful the
country is.
see sth for yourself (NOT by) = check that something is really true,
correct, as described etc by seeing it with your own eyes: ‘If you think I’m exaggerating, come and
see for yourself.’
1015
seek
I’m seeking someone to play squash with .
I’m looking for someone to play squash with.
Seek is used mainly in formal styles: The aim of the hostel is to give help to those seeking
friendship or simply shelter for the night.’
See also note at SEARCH 2
He sat nearer the tree, seeking for protection.
He sat nearer the tree, seeking protection.
seek sb/sth (WITHOUT for): ‘Economics graduate, aged 25, seeks interesting part-time work in
the West London area.’
1016
seem
Even the teacher seemed to be unable to answer the question .
Even the teacher seemed unable to answer the question.
She seemed to be sorry for causing so much trouble .
She seemed sorry for causing so much trouble.
When seem is followed by an adjective, to be is usually avoided: ‘After the guests had gone home,
the room seemed empty.’ ‘It seems strange that she didn’t say goodbye.’
Compare: There seems to be a problem with the carburettor.’
‘Steel Magnolias’ seemed to be a comedy at first.
‘Steel Magnolias’ seemed like a comedy at first.
This kind of diet seems to be a punishment.
This kind of diet seems like a punishment.
When you are making a comparison, use seem like: ‘Suddenly she seemed like a complete
stranger.’ ‘The last few days had seemed like a dream.’
1017
selling
They make all their money from the selling of vegetables.
They make all their money from the sale of vegetables.
To refer to the act of selling something, use the sale of: ‘The money that comes from the sale of
these drugs is used to buy weapons.’
The first proposal would reduce the selling figures of the local shops.
The first proposal would reduce the sales figures of the local shops.
sales = the number of things that are sold by a company: ‘They’ve recruited a top advertising
agency to help boost sales.’ ‘Last month’s sales figures are very pleasing.’
1018
send
Could you send me to the airport on Saturday?
Could you take me to the airport on Saturday?
The ministry’s policy is for ambulances to send patients to designated hospitals
within their zones.
The ministry’s policy is for ambulances to take patients to designated hospitals
within their zones.
See Language Note at TAKE
I will send to you a cheque for the full amount.
I will send you a cheque for the full amount.
send sb sth (WITHOUT to): ‘Don’t forget to send me a postcard.’
1019
sensibility
I felt terribly annoyed by his lack of sensibility.
I felt terribly annoyed by his lack of sensitivity.
To refer to the ability to understand other people’s feelings and problems, use sensitivity: ‘To
teach young children, you need lots of sensitivity and imagination.’
1020
sensible
Children are very sensible; they all need love and attention.
Children are very sensitive; they all need love and attention.
Use sensible to describe someone who makes good decisions based on reason, and never behaves
in a stupid or dangerous way: ‘I’m glad to see that she was sensible enough to bring some warm
clothes.’ ‘Be sensible - you can’t wear high heels to a garden party.’
Use sensitive to describe someone who is easily upset or offended: ‘He’s very sensitive about his
weight, so try not to mention it.’ ‘Don’t be so sensitive - he was only joking.’
1021
separate
Americans can be separated into a number of ethnic groups.
Americans can be divided into a number of ethnic groups.
England was separated into 650 constituencies.
England was divided into 650 constituencies.
separate= place or keep (people or things) apart from one another: ‘Break an egg into a bowl and
separate the white from the yolk.’
divide = cause something to consist of (or be seen as) a number of parts, groups, sections etc: ‘The
manufacturing process is divided into three stages.’
1022
several
The phrase ‘the role of women’ appeared just several years ago.
The phrase ‘the role of women’ appeared just a few years ago.
Try to forget your work for several hours and relax.
Try to forget your work for a few hours and relax.
Several means ‘some but not many’: ‘Chicken will keep for several days in a refrigerator.’
When you are talking about a very small number, use a few: ‘He was here just a few minutes ago
so he can’t be far away.’
1023
severe
My parents weren’t at all severe with me . In fact, I was allowed to do what I liked.
My parents weren’t at all strict with me. In fact, I was allowed to do what I liked.
severe = not kind or friendly; showing no humour or sympathy: ‘Mr. Cameron’s angry voice and
severe expression used to frighten the children .’
strict = demanding that rules or laws are always obeyed: ‘Teachers have to be strict or the
children take advantage of them.’ ‘The company is very strict about employees getting to work on
time.’
There are severe rules as to what you can wear to school.
There are strict rules as to what you can wear to school.
When severe refers to punishment, criticism, damage etc, it means ‘harsh’: ‘Driving while drunk
could endanger other people’s lives, so penalties are severe.’ ‘This non-intervention policy has
attracted severe criticism.’
To describe a rule or law that must always be obeyed, use strict: ‘The deer and other animals in
the park are protected by strict laws.’
1024
shade
I thought I saw someone’s shade go past the window.
I thought I saw someone’s shadow go past the window.
See Note at SHADOW
1025
shadow
I sat down in the shadow of a huge eucalyptus tree.
I sat down in the shade of a huge eucalyptus tree.
shade = sheltered from the sun: ‘It’s too hot here. Let’s go and find some shade.’ ‘The branches
provided plenty of shade.’
shadow = a dark shape that you see on a wall or surface when a light shines behind someone or
something: ‘The setting sun cast long shadows down the beach.’
1026
shall
The next meeting shall take place in Vienna.
The next meeting will take place in Vienna.
For future reference, use will with the second and third person: ‘I’m confident you will not be
disappointed.’ ‘If we don’t hurry, the match will have started.’ Use will/shall with the first person
(I/we): ‘This time next week I will/shall be in Florence.’ ‘I’m sure we will/shall be seeing each
other again.’
1027
shame
When I speak English I sometimes feel shame.
When I speak English I sometimes feel embarrassed.
The Chinese feel shame when they see people kissing in public.
The Chinese feel embarrassed when they see people kissing in public.
See ASHAMEO
she, s/he
See Language Note at HE
1028
sheep
A lot of cows and sheeps died because of the polluted water.
A lot of cows and sheep died because of the polluted water.
The plural form of sheep is the same as the singular form: ‘one sheep’, ‘two sheep’.
1029
shoot
The day after his 35th birthday, he shot 22 innocent people to death.
The day after his 35th birthday, he shot dead 22 innocent people.
The prisoners were either hanged or shot to death.
The prisoners were either hanged or shot.
beat/hack/stab sb to death BUT shoot sb dead or shoot and kill sb (NOT shoot sb to death) :
‘Hector Petersen was shot dead by South African police in June 1976.’
Note that shoot by itself can mean ‘shoot and kill’: ‘After shooting his victims, he buried the bodies
in a nearby field.’
Someone in the crowd ran up and shot a gun to the president.
Someone in the crowd ran up and fired a gun at the president.
fire a gun (at sb) , NOT shoot a gun: ‘As part of the celebration they drove through the streets
firing guns in the air.’ Note the alternative: ‘Someone in the crowd ran up and fired at the
president .’
1030
shopping
In the afternoon we went for shopping.
In the afternoon we went shopping.
I go to shopping twice a week.
I go shopping twice a week.
go shopping (WITHOUT to/for): ‘Some people fly to London just to go shopping.’
Compare: ‘We’d thought we’d go to the shops this afternoon .’
1031
shortly
She spoke very shortly about how they had lived during the war.
She spoke very briefly about how they had lived during the war.
shortly = (1) impatiently; not politely: ‘He answered rather shortly that he was NOT the slightest
bit interested .’ (2) very soon: ‘The accident happened shortly after they moved into their new
house.’
briefly = for a short time: ‘We talked briefly about the financial side of the agreement and then
moved on to other matters.’
1032
should
I have friends who should love to stay at home, but they have to go to work.
I have friends who would love to stay at home, but they have to go to work.
When talking about an imaginary situation, use should/would in the main clause after a first
person subject: ‘I should/would accept the job if I were you.’
After a second or third person subject, use would in the main clause (NOT should): ‘He would
accept the job if the salary were better.’
1033
shout
She made me so annoyed I felt like shouting to her.
She made me so annoyed I felt like shouting at her.
When you speak to someone in a loud voice because you are angry, you shout at them: ‘I can’t
stand it when the children start fighting and shouting at each other.’
1034
side
On the other side, I can understand why she feels disappointed.
On the other hand, I can understand why she feels disappointed.
on the one hand ... on the other hand (NOT side ): ‘On the other hand, the airline has an ‘excellent safety record.’
It shows us what is happening in the other side of the world.
It shows us what is happening on the other side of the world.
on the other side of sth (NOT in): ‘The bank is on the other side of the road.’ ‘What’s on the other
side?’
1035
sightsee
You will be able to sightsee the volcanoes.
You will be able to see/visit the volcanoes.
I enjoy sightseeing new places when I’m abroad.
I enjoy seeing/visiting new places when I’m abroad.
The verb sightsee does not exist.
1036
sightseeing
After lunch we went for sightseeing.
After lunch we went sightseeing.
They wanted me to take them for sightseeing.
The y wanted me to take them sightseeing.
go sightseeing , take sb sightseeing, etc (WITHOUT for): ‘Today we’re just relaxing by the pool
and tomorrow we’re going sightseeing.’
We’re going to do a sightseeing tomorrow.
We’re going (to do some) sightseeing tomorrow.
Sightseeing is an uncountable noun: ‘Some people aren’t interested in sightseeing.’
We visited all the famous sightseeing places.
We saw all the famous sights.
Nagasaki is famous for its sightseeing spots.
Nagasaki is famous for its tourist attractions.
To refer to places that tourists like to visit, use sights (plural) or tourist attraction/spot (NOT
sightseeing place/spot): ‘I’ve always wanted to see the sights of London.’
1037
signature
The signature of the new protocol took place in Rio de Janeiro.
The signing of the new protocol took place in Rio de Janeiro.
signature: your name, written in the way that you usually write it on a cheque, business letter etc:
‘These letters need your signature, Mr Ross.’ ‘You can tell by the signature if the painting is
genuine.’
To refer to the event at which two or more people sign a legal or formal agreement, use signing:
‘The signing of the peace agreement is scheduled to take place in Zurich at the end of the month.’
1038
silent
After a hard day’s work, I like to be silent.
After a hard day’s work, I like to be quiet.
silent : without any sound at all: ‘Apart from the regular ticking of the clock, the room was
completely silent.’
quiet: without unwanted noise or activity; peaceful: ‘After a few quiet days in the countryside, we
felt ready to face London again.’
1039
since
I am studying law since 1992.
I have been studying law since 1992.
Since that journey, I never sailed again.
Since that journey, I have never sailed again.
When you talk about an action or situation which began in the past and continues into the
present, use a present perfect tense: ‘I’ve been waiting here since 9 o’clock.’
In informal American English, the past tense is also used for this purpose.
See also FOR 4
I have been living in London since four weeks now.
I have been living in London for four weeks now.
I’ve been working in a bank since two years ago.
I’ve been working in a bank for (the last) two years.
since + beginning of period: ‘since 3 p.m.’
for + length of period: ‘for two and a half hours’
Compare: ‘I have been living in London for almost two years, since October 1994.’
Since the last few year s, unemployment has been increasing.
Over/during the last few years, unemployment has been increasing.
since + beginning of period: ‘I’ve been living in Paris since July.’
over/during + the period of time within which something happens or develops: ‘Over the last
eighteen months there have been three tax increases.’
I stayed at your hotel for three nights, since 23rd November to 26th November.
I stayed at your hotel for three nights, from 23rd November to 26th November.
from ... to ... : ‘from Monday to Wednesday’, ‘from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m.’, ‘from 1947 to 1966’
Bring Eva with you. It’s ages since I haven’t seen her.
Bring Eva with you. It’s ages since I (last) saw her.
It’s a long time since I haven’t seen you last.
It’s a long time since I saw you last.
it’s ages/a long time /two weeks (etc) since + past tense (NOT present perfect; WITHOUT not) :
‘It’s almost a year since I arrived.’ ‘It must be ages since we last had a meal together.’
1040
sink
See YOURS 1
I knew that if I fell into the sea, I would sink.
I knew that if I fell into the sea, I would drown.
Sink is used in connection with ships, boats and objects which go down and disappear beneath the
surface of water: ‘The ship had been holed in the collision and was beginning to sink.’
Drown is used in connection with someone who dies because water stops them from breathing:
‘One of the boys had fallen into the river and drowned.’
1041
size
I’m afraid that the pullover you sent me has the wrong size.
I’m afraid that the pullover you sent me is the wrong size.
be a certain size (NOT have) : ‘If the boots are size 43, they should fit me.’
As far as I remember, you both have the same size.
As far as I remember, you both take the same size.
As far as I remember, you are both the same size.
be/take a certain size (NOT have): ‘What size are you?’ ‘Before the baby was born, I used to take
a size 12.’
1042
skilful
You’ re lucky to have such skilful children , she said.
You’re lucky to have such talented children, she said.
skilful = having or showing skill (gained from instruction and practice): ‘Although he lacked Tyson’s knock-out punch, he was the more skilful of the two boxers.’ ; talented = having or showing a natural ability to do something well: ‘This talented young musician gave his first public performance at the age of five.’
1043
sleep
I slept at ten o’clock last night.
I went to bed at ten o’clock last night.
sleep = be asleep: ‘Nurse Burnley works all night and sleeps all day.’
go to bed = get into bed at the end of the day: ‘After dinner I had a hot bath and then went to
bed.’
I started sleeping and didn’t wake up till the next morning.
I fell asleep and didn’t wake up till the next morning.
After showing the conductor my ticket, I started sleeping again.
After showing the conductor my ticket, I went back to sleep.
go to sleep or fall asleep = enter a state of unconsciousness, especially so that your mind and
body can rest: ‘As soon as I started to read her a story, she went to sleep.’
go back to sleep or fall asleep again = go to sleep again: ‘The alarm clock rang at 7.45 but I just
turned over and went back to sleep.’
1044
smell
You can feel the smell of the fish a mile away.
You can smell the fish a mile away.
I could feel the smell of his cigar all over the house.
I could smell his cigar all over the house.
smell sth (NOT feel the smell of ): ‘I can smell something burning.’
Compare: ‘The whole house smelled of his cigar.’
See Note at FEEL 2
1045
smile
She smiled to me as if she knew me.
She smiled at me as if she knew me.
smile at sb (NOT to) : ‘For many parents the biggest thrill is when their baby first smiles at them.’
1046
smoke
People eventually get ill from inhaling the smokes.
People eventually get ill from inhaling the smoke.
Smoke is an uncountable noun: ‘The room was full of smoke.’
1047
snack
She usually has lunch at a snack in Barceloneta Square.
She usually has lunch at a snack bar in Barceloneta Square.
snack = a light meal or something that you eat between meals: ‘Instead of going out to lunch, I
usually have a quick snack in my office.’
snack bar = a cafe or similar place where you can buy a light meal: ‘The snack bar gets very busy
at lunchtime.’
1048
so
Since it’s his birthday on Monday, so he’s having a party.
Since it’s his birthday on Monday, he’s having a party.
It’s his birthday on Monday, so he’s having a party.
If you ‘re a naughty boy, so the big crocodile will come and eat you.
If you’re a naughty boy, the big crocodile will come and eat you.
If the first clause begins with if, since, as or because, do NOT begin the second clause with so (or
that’s why) . See also BUT
During the summer all the hotels are so busy,
During the summer all the hotels are very busy.
Use so + adjective (1) to mean ‘to such a high degree or great extent’: ‘I was so tired that I fell
asleep on the train.’ ‘I didn’t expect the hotels to be so busy.’
(2) to express strong personal emotion: ‘It was very kind of you to help me. I’m so grateful.’
Otherwise, use very/extremely + adjective: ‘She was very tired and found it difficult to stay
awake.’
My English is so poor so my wife has to translate everything.
My English is so poor that my wife has to translate everything.
so + adjective/adverb + that clause: ‘She was so clever that all the universities wanted her.’ ‘The
pianist played so badly that the audience walked out.’
Compare: ‘My English is very poor so my wife has to translate everything.’
We were not prepared for so cold weather.
We were not prepared for such cold weather.
I was annoyed with myself for being so fool.
I was annoyed with myself for being such a fool.
A phrase that ends with a noun (‘weather’, ‘fool’) usually begins with such (NOT so): ‘We hadn’t
expected such a warm welcome.’ ‘You’re lucky to have such delightful children.’
Compare: ‘Why is it always so cold in here?’ ‘The food was so bad that nobody could eat it.’
1049
so that
He hadn’t taken any warm clothes with him so that he felt cold.
He hadn’t taken any warm clothes with him so he felt cold.
So that is used to express the purpose of an action: ‘We took our umbrellas so that we wouldn’t
get wet.’
So is used to express the result of an action: ‘I’d forgotten to take my umbrella so I got wet.’
1050
so-called
Most of these drugs come from the so-called Golden Triangle.
Most of these drugs come from what is called the Golden Triangle.
During the so-called denitrification process, bacteria convert fixed nitrogen into
molecular nitrogen.
During what is known as the denitrification process, bacteria convert fixed
nitrogen into molecular nitrogen.
Use so-called when you want to suggest that the name that has been given to something is
incorrect or not suitable: ‘I went to see the playwright’s so-called masterpiece and was very
disappointed by it.’
To introduce the name by which something is generally known, use be known as, be referred to as
or be called: ‘The distance that light travels in a year is called a light year.’ ‘Zaire was formerly
known as the Congo.’
1051
social
The next election was won by the Social Party.
The next election was won by the Socialist Party.
social = connected with (life in a) society: ‘Government attempts to tackle two of today’s most
serious social problems - crime and unemployment - have had no effect.’
Socialist = connected with socialism (the political system that favours equality of opportunity and
public as opposed to private ownership): ‘Why is it that so many of these so-called socialists send
their children to fee-paying schools?’
Our new neighbours are not very social.
Our new neighbours are not very sociable.
A person who enjoys meeting and being with other people is sociable: ‘You’ll like John - he’s very
sociable and easy to get on with.’
1052
society
I was asked to give a talk about women and their role in the society.
I was asked to give a talk about women and their role in society.
When it means ‘the general system which helps people to live together in an organized way’,
society is uncountable and is used without the : ‘People who drink and drive are a danger to
society.’
Compare: ‘Britain is a multi-racial society.’
1053
solution
Let us hope that there will be a peaceful solution of these problems.
Let us hope that there will be a peaceful solution to these problems.
solution to a problem or difficult situation (NOT of): ‘Divorce is not necessarily the best solution to
an unhappy marriage, especially when there are children involved.’
1054
some
The refugees don’t have some rights at all.
The refugees don’t have any rights at all.
See Language Note at NOT
Do you have some questions?
Do you have any questions?
Use some, something etc in offers, requests, and questions that expect or hope for a ‘yes’ answer:
‘Who’d like something to eat?’ ‘Could you give me some help, please?’ ‘Aren’t there some letters
to be posted?’
In other questions, use any, anything etc: ‘Did you get any letters today?’ ‘Have you seen any
good films recently?’
I’m not sure if she ha s some brothers or sisters.
I’m not sure if she has any brothers or sisters.
When talking about something unknown or uncertain (e.g. after if/whether), use any, anyone etc:
‘I doubt whether anyone will object.’ ‘I’m not sure if I’ve got any envelopes that size.’
On Tuesday we ‘re going to London for some days.
On Tuesday we’re going to London for a few days.
To refer to a very small number or amount, use a few (+ plural count noun) or a little (+
uncountable noun).
Compare: Tina: ‘I need some washing powder.’ Alex: ‘How much?’ Tina: ‘Oh, just a little.’
1055
somebody/someo
ne
She hadn’t se en somebody for over a week.
She hadn’t seen anybody for over a week.
Somehow he had to get on the train without someone seeing him.
Somehow he had to get on the train without anyone seeing him.
See Language Note at NOT
I ran over to the car to see if someone was injured.
I ran over to the car to see if anyone was injured.
See Note at SOME 3
1056
something
At first we couldn’t see something suspicious.
At first we couldn’t see anything suspicious.
By six o’clock I am too tired to do something else.
By six o’clock I am too tired to do anything else.
See Language Note at NOT
Does your country export something?
Does your country export anything?
See Note at SOME 2
If the drawer is stuck, you’ll have to use a knife or something like that.
If the drawer is stuck, you’ll have to use a knife or something.
They never complain because they are afraid or something like that.
They never complain because they are afraid or something.
We could go shopping or something else.
We could go shopping or something.
In informal styles use ... or something (NOT ... or something else/like that): ‘Why don’t you buy
her a book or something?’ ‘We could stay here and play cards or something .’
1057
somewhere
The poor bus service makes it difficult to get somewhere.
The poor bus service makes it difficult to get anywhere.
See Language Note at NOT
Let’s go to somewhere different for a change.
Let’s go somewhere different for a change.
The prepositions in, at, and to are usually omitted in front of somewhere/anywhere. ‘He wants
you to give him a lift somewhere.’
Compare: ‘He wants you to give him a lift to the station .’
1058
soon
As it soon will be Christmas I’m anxious to get the television repaired as quickly as
possible.
As it will soon be Christmas, I’m anxious to get the television repaired as quickly
as possible.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
I’ll phone you as soon as I’ll arrive.
I’II phone you as soon as I arrive.
See Language Note at WILL
1059
sorry
I’m sorry for my terrible handwriting.
I’m sorry about my terrible handwriting.
Unfortunately I can’t come to your wedding because my exams begin on that day.
I’m sorry for that.
Unfortunately I can ‘t come to your wedding because my exams begin on that
day. I’m sorry about that.
be sorry about + noun/pronoun : ‘I’m terribly sorry about your camera – I didn’t mean to drop it.’
‘I’m so sorry about all the mistakes.’
be sorry about/for + doing sth: ‘I’m sorry about/for taking SO long to answer your letter.’
1060
sort of
These sort of activities help students to become independent.
These sorts of activities help students to become independent.
See Note at KIND OF 1
I hate people who ask that sort of questions.
I hate people who ask that sort of question.
I hate people who ask those sorts of question/so
See Note at KIND OF 2
1061
space
There are hundreds of millions of stars in the space.
There are hundreds of millions of stars in space.
When you mean ‘everything beyond the Earth’s atmosphere’, use space (WITHOUT the ): ‘He was
the first German astronaut to travel in space.’
1062
speak
We hadn’t seen each other for a year and so we spent the whole night speaking.
We hadn’t seen each other for a year and so we spent the whole night talking.
We spoke about where we would go for our next holiday .
We talked about where we would go for our next holiday.
When just one person does all or most of the talking , either speak or talk may be used: ‘He
spoke/talked about his years in the army.’
When two or more people have a conversation , the usual word is talk (NOT speak): ‘We must
have been talking for hours.’ ‘If someone brings me a problem, we just sit down and talk about it.’
Neither of my parents speaks in English.
Neither of my parents speaks English.
speak in (English) = use (English) on a particular occasion : ‘My grandparents won’t understand a
thing if the priest speaks in French.’
speak (English) = know (English) and use it habitually: ‘Do you speak German?’ ‘We’ll have to find
someone who speaks English.’
We were shown how to speak with customers and handle complaints.
We were shown how to speak to customers and handle complaints.
In British English the usual phrase is speak to someone: ‘If you need any more information, you
should speak to Mrs Hall.’
Note that in American English both speak to and speak with are used.
1063
specialize
I intend to specialize myself in French literature.
I intend to specialize in French literature.
See Language Note at MYSELF
1064
specially
Ordering a meal can be very difficult, specially when there is no menu.
Ordering a meal can be very difficult, especially when there is no menu.
They should not drop bombs on innocent people, specially children.
They should not drop bombs on innocent people, especially children.
I also enjoy water sports and I am specially interested in sailing.
I also enjoy water sports and I am especially interested in sailing.
Use specially when you mean that something is done or made for a particular purpose: ‘We’ve
come all the way from Frankfurt specially to see you.’ ‘The stamps were specially designed to
commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations.’
For all other meanings, use especially: ‘Paris is always full of tourists, especially during the
summer months.’ ‘Middle-aged men, especially those who are overweight, are susceptible to
heart-attacks.’
To live in Britain you need a lot of money. Specially London is very expensive.
To live in Britain you need a lot of money. London especially is very expensive.
To draw attention to the situation in which your statement is particularly true, use especially. See
Note at ESPECIALLY 2
1065
spectator
The spectators laughed at every joke.
The audience laughed at every joke.
spectator = a person who goes to watch a sporting event such as a football match: ‘The new
stadium can hold up to 60,000 spectators.’ ‘The police should stop spectators from running onto
the pitch.’
audience = see Note at AUDIENCE
1066
speech
I was invited to make a speech on the radio.
I was invited to give a talk on the radio.
A speech is usually made by a politician or by an important person at a meeting, social occasion,
or dinner: ‘The Prime Minister’s speech included a fierce attack on the unions.’
A talk is usually informative and is often given by a lecturer: ‘The title of Dr Chase’s talk is "Solar
Energy and the Nuclear Debate".’
I was asked to do a speech welcoming the new students.
I was asked to give a speech welcoming the new students.
give/make a speech (NOT do): ‘After the meal the bride’s father stood up and made a short
speech.’
1067
speed
I jumped in and swam towards the chi ld at my fastest speed.
I jumped in and swam towards the child as fast as I could.
The world’s population has increased at a very rapid speed.
The world’s population has increased very rapidly.
Phases with speed are usually used in connection with vehicles and machines: ‘At the time of the
crash, the train was travelling at full speed.’ ‘These cars are capable of very high speeds.’
These new trains can travel in very high speeds.
These new trains can travel at very high speeds.
The car in front of ours continued with the same speed.
The car in front of ours continued at the same speed.
at a particular speed ( NOT with/in) ‘If we continue at this speed, we’ll be there in an hour.’
‘According to the police report, the car had been travelling at a speed of 110 miles per hour.’
He always drives at a very fast speed.
He always drives at top speed.
at great/high/top/full/breakneck speed: ‘He jumped into the car and drove off at great speed.’
1068
spend
They don’t have any money to spend for luxuries.
They don’t have any money to spend on luxuries.
He spends everything he earns for his children.
He spends everything he earns on his children.
spend your time/money/$12/£5 etc + on sb/sth (NOT for) : ‘I spend about half my salary on
food.’ ‘You should spend more time on your homework.’
Parents should spend more time to look after their children.
Parents should spend more time looking after their children.
I never spend more than an hour a day for studying.
I never spend more than an hour a day studying.
She spends most of her free time on reading.
She spends most of her free time reading.
spend your time/five minutes/two days etc + doing sth: ‘She spends all her time working on her
thesis.’
1069
spite
I believe that every criminal, in spite of the circumstances, should be severely
punish ed.
I believe that every criminal, regardless of the circumstances, should be severely
punished.
Use in spite of to introduce a fact that is in sharp contrast with another fact: ‘In spite of all their
money, they still aren’t happy.’
Use regardless of to emphasize that a particular fact does not change a course of action, even
though it may be a difficulty: ‘We’re determined to have a holiday this year, regardless of how
much it costs.’
In spite of staying at home , I decided to continue my studies in the United States.
Instead of staying at home, I decided to continue my studies in the United States.
When the situation involves a choice between two actions or things, use instead of (NOT in spite
of) : ‘Instead of building more roads, we should be investing in the railway.
They refused to play in the rain in spite of the crowd protested.
They refused to play in the rain in spite of the crowd’s protests.
See Note at DESPITE 1
1070
sport
Sports help us to keep fit.
Sport helps us to keep fit.
a sport (countable) = a particular type of sport: ‘Cricket is a very popular sport in Yorkshire.’
sport (uncountable) = sport in general: ‘She writes articles on sport and travel.’ ‘I’m not very good
at sport.’
I need some new sport shoes.
I need some new sports shoes.
She bought a bright red sport car.
She bought a bright red sports car.
Use sports in front of a noun (NOT sport): ‘a sports centre’, ‘a sports club’, ‘sports equipment’,
‘sports injuries’.
He makes all types of sport.
He does all types of sport.
I do sport (NOT make): ‘Do you do any sport at school?’
1071
spread
Rumours spread out very quickly.
Rumours spread very quickly.
The computer mania is still spreading out.
The computer mania is still spreading.
When you mean ‘grow, develop or become increasingly common’ use spread (WITHOUT out) :
‘They couldn’t stop the fire from spreading.’ ‘Dissatisfaction with the present government seems
to be spreading.’
Compare: ‘The search party spread out across the field.’ ‘Her clothes were all spread out on the
bed, ready to be packed.’
1072
squeeze
The train was so full that I was frightened of getting squeezed.
The train was so full that I was frightened of getting squashed.
squeeze = (1) press something firmly, especially by closing your hand round it: ‘She squeezed my
arm and told me not to worry.’
(2) get liquid, cream, paste etc from something by pressing it firmly: ‘Squeeze the lemons and then
pour the juice into a jug.’
(3) force someone or something into a small space: ‘Somehow we managed to squeeze everyone
into the car.’
squash (or crush) = press something, usually with great force, so that it becomes flat or broken:
‘Mind you don’t squash the tomatoes.’
1073
staff
The assembly and packing department has 50 staffs.
The assembly and packing department has 50 staff.
The assembly and packing department has a staff of 50.
The noun staff refers to a whole group of people, (NOT a single person): ‘(The) staff at the Central
Hospital have rejected the new pay offer.’ ‘Several senior members of staff have opted for early
retirement.’
1074
statistic
This view is supported by statistic published in 1985.
This view is supported by statistics published in 1985.
statistic (singular) refers to one piece of data: ‘This terrible crime will soon become nothing more
than a statistic in police records.’
statistics (plural) refers to a set of data: ‘Statistics show that the population has almost doubled in
the last twenty years.’
1075
stay
He’s invited us to stay a few days with him.
He’s invited us to spend a few days with him.
spend a period of time somewhere (NOT stay): ‘We spent the afternoon at John’s house.’ ‘Where
are you going to spend Christmas?’
Note the alternative: ‘He’s invited us to stay with him for a few days.’
1076
steal
The bank in our town has been stolen twice this year.
The bank in our town has been robbed twice this year.
rob a bank, post office etc (NOT steal) : ‘Apart from the two cashiers , nobody realized that the
bank was being robbed.’
If you look wealthy, you are likely to be stolen.
If you look wealthy, you are likely to be robbed.
See Note at ROB
After ten years he discovered that his partner had been stealing him.
After ten years he discovered that his partner had been stealing from him.
steal from sb (WITH from): ‘She was found guilty of stealing from her previous employer.’
1077
still
I enjoy this type of music still now.
I still enjoy this type of music.
The accident happened over ten years ago but still now I get upset when I think
about it.
The accident happened over ten years ago but I still get upset when I think about
it.
still (NOT still now): ‘My sister still believes in Santa Claus but I don’t.’
It is my first time abroad and so I feel still excited and confused.
It is my first time abroad and so I still feel excited and confused.
My country still is not very rich, but at least everyone has enough food to eat.
My country is still not very rich, but at least everyone has enough food to eat.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
1078
stimulant
Political stability acts as a stimulant for foreign investment.
Political stability acts as a stimulus for foreign investment.
A stimulant is a drug, medicine etc, which makes the mind or body more active: ‘The caffeine in
coffee acts as a stimulant.’
When you are not talking about a drug or medicine, use stimulus (= something which causes
activity, growth, or greater effort): ‘The new textbook provided a good stimulus for both teachers
and students.’
1079
stop
This policy is supposed to stop people to buy foreign cars.
This policy is supposed to stop people from buying foreign cars.
stop sb/sth (from) doing sth (NOT to do), = prevent someone (from) doing something or
something from happening: ‘Her parents tried to stop her from going abroad.’
The child couldn’t stop from talking.
The child couldn’t stop talking.
stop doing sth (WITHOUT from) = cease an activity: ‘ It’s actually stopped raining at last.’
Compare: ‘The rain stopped us from going out.’
I stopped to play the piano at the age of eight.
I stopped playing the piano at the age of eight.
He loved toys and couldn’t stop to look at them.
He loved toys and couldn’t stop looking at them.
stop doing sth = cease or discontinue an activity: ‘I stopped reading and turned out the light.’
stop to do sth = halt or pause (in order to do something) : ‘Although I was in a hurry, I stopped to
talk to him.’
1080
storey
They live on the second storey.
They live on the second floor.
Storey is usually used to describe the structure of a building: ‘These office blocks are usually three
or four storeys high.’ ‘a multi-storey car park’, ‘a detached two-storey house’.
When you are talking about where someone lives/works/goes etc, use floor: ‘My flat is on the
seventh floor.’ ‘We took the lift up to the third floor.’
1081
strange
The children were told not to talk to strange people.
The children were told not to talk to strangers.
A strange person is someone who behaves in a way that other people find disturbing or difficult to
understand : ‘I find Barbara a bit strange. She won’t look at you even when you speak to her.’
A stranger is someone you have never met before: ‘We’ve told our children not to accept sweets
from strangers .’
When I arrived in England, I felt strange .
When I arrived in England, everything seemed strange.
When you are talking about how you feel when you first arrive in a new country , city or situation,
it is more usual to say that the country seems strange rather than ‘I feel strange’: ‘Things are
bound to seem a bit strange for the first few days.’
LA seemed very strange for me at first.
LA seemed very strange to me at first.
Something unfamiliar is strange to you (NOT for): ‘These customs can seem very strange to nonWesterners.’
1082
stranger
There are a lot of strangers visiting England.
There are a lot of foreigners visiting England.
stranger = a person you have never met before: ‘Although he was a total stranger, he started
asking me for money!’
foreigner = a person from another country: ‘Foreigners need a visa to enter the country.’
1083
strike
The whole workforce is threatening to go on a strike.
The whole workforce is threatening to go on strike.
go/be on strike (WITHOUT a): ‘Transport workers have gone on strike for better pay and shorter
hours.’ ‘The miners are still on strike.’
Note however: ‘Some of the prisoners have gone on (a) hunger strike.’
1084
strongly
When the plane took off, she held my hand strongly.
When the plane took off, she held my hand tightly.
Strongly is used with verbs such as suggest, advise, recommend, agree/disagree, believe, feel
etc (NOT with verbs that refer to actions): ‘I would strongly advise you to think again.’
1085
study
I’m a student of Goldsmith’s College.
I’m a student at Goldsmith’s College.
Next July I’m going to the USA to continue my study.
Next July I’m going to the USA to continue my studies.
To refer to the work that a student does at a college or university, use studies: ‘After the war he
resumed his studies at the University of Turin.’ Compare: ‘They are conducting a study of sex
education in local secondary schools.’
1086
stuff
She’s studying history in Ox ford University.
She’s studying history at Oxford University.
He’d left al l his tennis stuffs at home.
He’d left all his tennis stuff at home.
Stuff is an uncountable noun: ‘He asked if he could bring his stuff over to my place.’
1087
style
I’d like to live abroad and have a different style of life .
I’d like to live abroad and have a different lifestyle.
I find this living style very attractive.
I find this lifestyle very attractive.
See Note at LIFE 2
1088
subconscious
The driver of the car was taken to hospital subconscious.
The driver of the car was taken to hospital unconscious.
subconscious = (of a thought or desire) existing or occurring in the mind without the person being
aware of it: ‘His dream about crossing the ocean single-handed probably arose from a
subconscious desire for fame.’
unconscious = (of a person) in a sleep-like state, especially because you are ill or have been hit on
the head: ‘The cleaner found him lying unconscious on the bathroom floor.’
1089
subject
The subject of my thesis is about women in the popular press.
The subject of my thesis is women in the popular press.
Subject is not followed by about. Note the alternative: ‘My thesis is about women in the popular
press.’
1090
succeed
Not many of us succeed to achieve our ambitions.
Not many of us succeed in achieving our ambitions.
succeed in doing sth (NOT to do sth) : ‘Having finally succeeded in mounting the horse, I was
determined to stay on it.’
1091
such
She was always a such intelligent woman.
She was always such an intelligent woman.
Such always comes at the beginning of a noun phrase: ‘It’s such a good film that I’d like to see it
again.’
1092
suddenly
Late one evening , as I was getting into the bath , suddenly I heard a strange noise.
Late one evening, as I was getting into the bath, I suddenly heard a strange noise.
See Language Note at ALWAYS
1093
suffer
The woman was so unpleasant that none of us could suffer her.
The woman was so unpleasant that none of us could tolerate her.
See Note at SUPPORT
The other passenger suffered from serious leg injuries.
The other passenger suffered serious leg injuries.
Most of the carriers suffer hemophilia.
Most of the carriers suffer from hemophilia.
suffer an injury, pain, loss, defeat etc (WITHOUT from): ‘She can walk again, but she still suffers a
lot of pain.’ ‘The party suffered yet another humiliating defeat in the recent by-election.
suffer from a disease, poverty, starvation etc: ‘A lot of the children we saw were suffering from
malnutrition.’ ‘Aunt Linda suffers from arthritis.’
1094
suggest
I suggest you to take more exercise.
I suggest (that) you take more exercise.
suggest (that) sb (should) do sth : ‘I suggest you try the chemist’s in the high street.’ ‘The
chairman suggested that the two sides should meet again the following day.’
She suggested to go to the zoo.
She suggested going to the zoo.
suggest doing sth (NOT to do) : ‘He suggested meeting us for a drink after the concert.’
1095
suit
Short hair suits to her.
Short hair suits her.
If something looks good on someone, it suits them (WITHOUT to) : ‘Do you think this colour suits
me?’ ‘That blouse doesn’t suit you.’
Red wine doesn’t suit fish.
Red wine doesn’t go with fish.
When you are talking about the effect of having two different things together, use go with (NOT
suit) : ‘I like the wallpaper, but it doesn’t go with the carpet.’ ‘This jacket will go really well with
your grey trousers.’
1096
suitable
I didn’t feel suitable to a career in medicine.
I didn’t feel suited to a career in medicine.
suitable (for) = right or appropriate for a particular purpose: ‘The film isn’t really suitable for
children.’ ‘We’d like to give her the job but her qualifications aren’t suitable.’
suited to = having the qualifications, experience, personality etc that make you suitable for a
particular job or situation: ‘Her interest in poetry makes her better suited to a literature course.’
The food they gave us wasn’t suitable to be eaten.
The food they gave us wasn’t fit to eat.
be fit to eat/drink/live in etc = (of the condition or quality of something) good enough for the
stated purpose: ‘The house hadn’t been cleaned for months and wasn’t fit to live in.’
1097
sunbath
In the afternoon we had a sun bath on the beach.
In the afternoon we sunbathed on the beach.
The noun sunbath does not exist. Use the verb sunbathe /ˈsʌnbeɪð/ or do some sunbathing/go
sunbathing: ‘I found him back at the hotel, sunbathing by the pool.’ ‘The sky had clouded over so
we couldn’t do any sunbathing.’
1098
superior
The second hotel was far superior than the first one.
The second hotel was far superior to the first one.
See Note at INFERIOR
1099
supply
We shall supply you everything you need.
We shall supply you with everything you need.
supply sb with something: ‘The workers are supplied with masks and special protective clothing.’
1100
support
He couldn’t support the way his father used to shout at him.
He couldn’t tolerate the way his father used to shout at him.
Are you prepared to support the noise of the traffic?
Are you prepared to put up with the noise of the traffic?
tolerate, put up with, stand sb/sth (NOT support/suffer) = be willing to accept someone or
something, even though the person or situation is unpleasant: ‘I’m surprised that she tolerates his
behaviour.’ ‘It’s not a bad job, as long as you can stand the long hours.’
1101
suppose
All their products are suppose to be guaranteed for six months.
All their products are supposed to be guaranteed for six months.
be supposed to be/do sth (WITH -d): ‘How many pages are we supposed to write?’ ‘You’re suppose do be there in five minutes.’
It’s a very unusual coat and so I suppose you will not have any trouble finding it.
It’s a very unusual coat and so I don’t suppose you will have any trouble finding it.
See Note at THINK 6
1102
surely
It was an absolutely terrible flight. The next time I go to Rio , I will surely go by train.
It was an absolutely terrible flight. The next time I go to Rio, I will definitely go by train.
Surely is used to express a strong belief in the truth or likelihood of what you are saying, and often to encourage the listener to express agreement: ‘Surely they should have arrived by now!’ ‘A twenty-dollar parking fine! Surely someone’s made a mistake!’ ‘You don’t need to wear a coat in this weather, surely?’
Definitely expresses a sense of complete certainty about something: ‘She said she’d definitely be back by dinner time.’ ‘This is definitely the best film she’s ever made.’
On the first day we’ll just stay at the hotel and rest because the journey will be surely tiring.
On the first day we’ll just stay at the hotel and rest because the journey is bound to be tiring.
If you feel sure that something is going to happen, you say that it is bound/sure to happen: ‘At the interview they’re bound to ask you about your last job.’ ‘Once drivers get impatient, accidents are sure to happen.
He said he felt worried because of all the recent air disasters. Surely I became worried too.
He said he felt worried because of all the recent air disasters. Naturally I became worried too.
When you mean ‘as anyone would expect’, use naturally or of course: ‘She’s just lost her job and so naturally she’s feeling a bit depressed.’ ‘Henry is still in France but he’ll be back in time for the wedding of course.’
1103
surprised
When we heard about the accident, we we’re all surprised and didn’t know what to say .
When we heard about the accident, we were all shocked and didn’t know what to say.
When someone is surprised and upset because something unpleasant has happened, they are
shocked: ‘When reports came in that the child’s body had been found, everyone was deeply shocked.’
Paola was very surprised for the low prices.
Paola was very surprised at the low prices.
I was pleasantly surprised about the variety of food in England.
I was pleasantly surprised by the variety of food in England.
surprised at/by sth (NOT about/for/of etc): ‘I was surprised at the difference in their ages - he was old enough to be her father.’ ‘I knew she would do well and wasn’t at all surprised by her
results.’
1104
suspect
Army intelligence suspected him as a secret agent.
Army intelligence suspected him of being a secret agent.
suspect sb of (doing/being) sth (NOT as): ‘The police suspect her of receiving stolen goods.’ Their
father is suspected of being connected with the local mafia.’
1105
suspicious
Before I actually started to use one, I was suspicious about the value of computers.
Before I actually started to use one, I was sceptical about the value of computers.
suspicious = thinking that someone may be guilty of doing something wrong: ‘I started to get suspicious when he refused to tell me where he had been.’ ; sceptical /ˈskeptɪkəl/ = tending not to believe what people say about something: ‘Many doctors remain highly sceptical about the value of alternative medicine.’
1106
sympathetic
He’s a selfish, greedy little man and not at all sympathetic.
He’s a selfish, greedy little man and not at all likeable.
Sympathetic = feeling or showing sympathy : ‘He expected people to be sympathetic because he was an orphan.’ ; likeable = easy to like: ‘If Philip weren’t so arrogant, he’d be quite likeable.’
1107
table
When you come to dinner on Sunday, take your fiancée with you so I can meet her.
When you come to dinner on Sunday, bring your fiancée with you so I can meet
her.
He asked if he could come to your party and take a friend with him.
He asked if he could come to your party and bring a friend with him.
See Language Note on next page
See PART
1108
take care
take notice of
See NOTICE 2
take part in
1109
talk
See PART 4, 5, 6
I couldn’t talk English in those days.
I couldn’t speak English in those days.
speak English/French/Thai etc (NOT talk): ‘Do you speak Italian?’ ‘I didn’t know you could speak
Greek.’
I’d like to talk you about a dream I had last night.
I’d like to tell you about a dream I had last night.
When there is something that you want someone to know, you tell them about it: ‘She told me
about her holiday plans.’
When you have a conversation , you talk (to someone) about something: ‘We talked about where
we could go at the weekend .’
There’s something I’d like to talk you about.
There’s something I’d like to talk to you about.
talk to sb (about sth) : ‘The manager would like to talk to you when you have a moment.’
I didn’t want to talk with him because I was in a hurry.
I didn’t want to talk to him because I was in a hurry.
In British English the usual phrase is talk to someone : ‘Who were you talking to just now?’
Note that in American English both talk to and talk with are used.
1110
tall
I prefer rooms with tall ceilings.
I prefer rooms with high ceilings.
See Note at HIGH
1111
taste
During your visit you’ll be able to taste some of the local Catalan specialties.
During your visit you’ll be able to try some of the local Catalan specialties.
When you taste something, you put a little into your mouth to see what it is like: ‘The chef stirred
the soup, tasted it, and then added a little salt.
When you have something to eat or drink for the first time , you try it. ‘I think I’ll try the onion
soup. What’ s it like?’
I buy all my family’s clothes because my husband has such a poor taste.
I buy all my family’s clothes because my husband has such poor taste.
have good/poor/little/no taste (in sth) , (WITHOUT a/an): ‘She certainly has remarkably good
taste in clothes.’
We all thought that the joke was of a very bad taste.
We all thought that the joke was in very bad taste.
be in good/poor/bad taste : ‘These advertisements are in very bad taste and in my opinion should
be banned.’
1112
tasteful
The food was excellent and very tasteful.
The food was excellent and very tasty.
tasteful = chosen or produced by someone who is able to judge which kinds of art, music,
furniture, etc, are attractive: ‘The design of the room was very tasteful - pale colours, matching
fabrics, and soft corner lighting.’
tasty = (of food) having a pleasant taste : ‘These sausages are really tasty - where did you buy
them?’
1113
taxi
To save time , we decided to go with a taxi.
To save time, we decided to go by taxi.
To save time, we decided to go in a taxi.
You go somewhere by taxi or in a taxi (NOT with ): ‘If you go by taxi, you’re likely to get stuck in a traffic jam.’
1114
tears
All of a sudden the child burst in tears.
All of a sudden the child burst into tears.
When the policeman had gone, she broke in tears.
When the policeman had gone, she burst into tears.
burst into tears or break down (in tears) : ‘Laura burst into tears and ran out of the room.’ ‘She
still can’t talk about the war without breaking down in tears.’
1115
technique
The main cause of unemployment is modern technique.
The main cause of unemployment is modern technology.
technique = a way of doing something, especially one that requires special training: ‘Thanks to
these new surgical techniques, patients spend far shorter periods in hospital.’ ‘The purpose of
these seminars is to keep our staff up to date with the latest teaching and testing techniques.’
technology = (the study of) the use of scientific theories and methods for practical purposes: ‘Can
you imagine what the world would be like without science and technology?’ ‘Space research has
produced major advances in computer technology.’
The job requires proper technique training.
The job requires proper technical training.
He used a lot of technique language that I didn’t understand.
He used a lot of technical language that I didn’t understand.
technical = (1) involving or requiring detailed knowledge, especially of an industrial or scientific
subject: ‘The flight was cancelled because of a serious technical problem.’
(2) requiring special knowledge to be understood: ‘Engineering students need a lot of technical
English.’
1116
technology
The modern techno logy has changed our whole way of life.
Modern technology has changed our whole way of life.
See Note at THE 4
A fine example of modern technologies ca n be seen in the Indonesian fishing
industry.
A fine example of modern technology can be seen in the Indonesian fishing
industry.
When technology has a general meaning it is uncountable: ‘The country’s economic fate depends
on access to foreign technology.’
Use technology as a countable noun only when you refer to a particular area of activity: ‘The
system uses advanced computer and satellite technologies.’
High technology requires massive investment.
Advanced technology requires massive investment.
advanced technology (NOT high): ‘The United States government has agreed to provide both
capital and advanced technology.’
1117
television
The whole world watched the cup final on televisions.
The whole world watched the cup final on television.
Television (also TV) is usually uncountable: ‘The children watch a lot of television.’ ‘The article
explains how television affects family life.’
As a countable noun it means ‘a television set’: ‘Some parents buy two televisions - one for the
children to watch and one for themselves.’
Cigarettes are no longer advertised in television.
Cigarettes are no longer advertised on television.
See Note at RADIO
1118
tell
The article tells about the history of Rome.
The article is about the history of Rome.
The story tells of a princess and a frog.
The story is about a princess and a frog.
You usually say that a book, story, article etc is about a particular subject: ‘The novel is about the
experiences of a young German soldier during the First World War.’
Tell of is used only in literary styles: ‘The poem tells of the deeds of a young Greek soldier during
the Trojan War.’ Tell about does not exist.
He told that he hadn’t eaten anything for over a week.
He told them that he hadn’t eaten anything for over a week.
He said that he hadn’t eaten anything for over a week.
tell sb sth (WITH indirect object): ‘Jim told me that you’ve been offered a new job.’
say sth (WITHOUT indirect object): ‘Jim said that you’ve been offered a new job.’
John said that he was trying to get to London. ‘That’s where I’m going,’ told the
man.
John said that he was trying to get to London. ‘That’ s where I’m going,’ said the
man.
Say is used with both direct and indirect speech: "I’m not going,’’’ he said.’ ‘He said he wasn’t
going.’
Tell is used only with indirect speech : ‘He told me he wasn’t going.’
Ryan was always telling about herself and her problems.
Ryan was always talking about herself and her problems.
talk about sth (NOT tell about): ‘Once she felt more relaxed, she began to talk about her real
reasons for coming to see me.’
Compare tell sb about sth: ‘Did you tell him about the party on Saturday?’ ‘Don’t forget to tell the
doctor about your headaches.’
1119
tendency
I have a tendency to agree with the statement.
I tend to agree with the statement.
To introduce an opinion, use tend to (NOT tendency): ‘She tends to think that small firms should
receive greater government support .’
Compare: ‘Ann tends/has a tendency to get up late.’ (= Ann often gets up late)
1120
terrible
The traffic jams are very terrible.
The traffic jams are (absolutely) terrible.
See Note at VERY 2
1121
terrorism
One of the world’s greatest problems is the terrorism.
One of the world’s greatest problems is terrorism.
See Note at THE 4
1122
test
On my first day at the school, I had to make a test.
On my first day at the school, I had to take a test.
take/do a test (NOT make) : ‘Before they start their courses , all the new students take a
placement test.’
See Language Note at DO
1123
text
She said she was writing a text about France for her local newspaper.
She said she was writing an article about France for her local newspaper.
text = (1) the words in a book, magazine , etc (as opposed to the illustrations); any written
material: ‘Alongside each drawing there were several lines of text.’ ‘A single disk can hold up to
1000 pages of text.’
(2) a book or piece of writing on an academic subject: ‘The first two texts on the reading list are
general introductions.’
(3) the written version of a play, speech etc: ‘Only ‘The Times’ printed the full text of the
President’s speech.’
article = a piece of writing in a newspaper or magazine: ‘I’ve just been reading an interesting
article on alternative medicine.’
1124
-th
It was their 23th wedding anniversary.
It was their 23rd wedding anniversary.
Use -th when the word for the number ends with ‘-th’: ‘6th May’ (= sixth) , ‘18th May’ (=
eighteenth). Do not use -th with (numbers ending) 1, 2, 3.
Compare : ‘1st May’ (first) , ‘2nd May ‘ (second), ‘3rd May ‘ (third)
1125
thank
I thank you very much for your last letter.
Thank you very much for your last letter.
First I thank you for answering my letter so quickly.
First I’d like to thank you for answering my letter so quickly.
Use thanks (informal), thank you or (especially in formal styles) I would/should like to thank you
(NOT I thank you): ‘On behalf of the team, I’d like to thank you for your invaluable advice and
support.’
Thank you for agree to listen.
Thank you for agreeing to listen.
Thank you that you give me a chance to explain the situation.
Thank you for giving me a chance to explain the situation.
thank sb for doing sth: Thank you for being so understanding .’
Thank you in advance for your help.
(Usually better to omit)
You can use thank you in advance if the person you are writing to has already said that they will
do something for you: ‘It was kind of you to offer to send me a copy. Thank you in advance.’ You
can also use this phrase if you are in a position of authority and know that the person you are
writing to will do what you have asked.
Otherwise , thank you in advance should not be used since it can cause offence.
Thank to the microwave, we always have a hot breakfast.
Thanks to the microwave, we always have a hot breakfast.
thanks to sb/sth (WITH-s) : Thanks to parents’ generosity, the school will soon have its own
swimming-pool.’
1126
thankful
I’m very thankful to you for giving me this opportunity.
I’m very grateful to you for giving me this opportunity.
Thankful = happy and relieved that something (good) has happened: ‘We should all be thankful
that nobody was hurt..’
grateful = full of thanks: ‘Dr Cameron has received dozens of letters from grateful patients.’ ‘We’d
be grateful if you could let us have your views on this matter.’
1127
that
It is two months now that I left Germany.
It is two months now since I left Germany.
a week/two months etc + since something happened (NOT that): ‘It’s almost two years since I started my PhD.’
The weather has been very good, except for two days that it rained.
The weather has been very good, except for two days when it rained.
When the meaning is ‘at/on/in/during which’ (referring to time), use when (NOT that) : ‘These are the times when Dr Roberts will be able to see you.’ Compare: ‘I shall always remember the two days that I spent in Paris.’
I was shocked by the sight that I could hardly speak.
I was so shocked by the sight that I could hardly speak.
so + adjective/adverb + that clause: ‘I’m so tired that I can’t keep awake.’ ‘He spoke so quickly that nobody could understand him.’
He closed the door quietly that nobody would hear him.
He closed the door quietly so that nobody would hear him.
Use so that to express purpose (NOT that): ‘The burglars turned off all the lights so that they wouldn’t be seen.’
Children are not as easy to please nowadays that they were in the past.
Children are not as easy to please nowadays as they were in the past.
When making a comparison, use as/so ... as (NOT as/so ... that): ‘It’s as hard to get into university today as it was ten years ago.’
It worried me that the letter had not arrived, especially that it had never happened before.
It worried me that the letter had not arrived, especially since/as it had never happened before.
When giving a reason for something, use since or as (NOT that): ‘Instead of cooking, why don’t we get a take-away, especially as it’s so late.’
Sitting next to me was an old lady, that seemed to be sound asleep.
Sitting next to me was an old lady, who seemed to be sound asleep.
That is used to introduce an identifying relative clause (one which identifies, defines, or restricts the preceding noun): ‘The woman that is sitting behind us is Tom’s music teacher.’ ‘The man that I marry will have lots of money.’
That is not used to introduce a non-identifying relative clause (one which simply adds more information about the noun).
If you haven’t sent it yet, I’d be pleased if you would do that as soon as possible.
If you haven’t sent it yet, I’d be pleased if you would do so as soon as possible.
To make a precise reference to a previously mentioned action, use do so (NOT do that): ‘I asked him politely to take his feet off the seat but he refused to do so.’
1128
the
She is arriving on March the 25th.
She is arriving on March 25th.
When you say the date, use ‘March the twenty-fifth’ or ‘the twenty-fifth of March’.
When you write the date, use ‘March 25th’ or ‘25th March’ (WITHOUT the and of).
Very few people can speak the English well in Japan.
Very few people can speak English well in Japan.
speak/learn/know etc + name of a language (WITHOUT the): ‘She speaks fluent German.’ ‘Do you know any Malay?’ ‘I’d like to learn Mandarin.’ Note that the + English/Japanese etc + language may be used when you talk about a language in terms of its history, structure, users etc: ‘The English language has evolved over many centuries.’
I have just seen a new magazine about the computers.
I have just seen a new magazine about computers.
Do not use the with the plural form of a countable noun when it is used in a general sense. ; Compare: ‘She likes cats.’ (= cats in general) The cats we saw in Venice looked very hungry.’ (= a particular group of cats)
A lot of people are afraid of the death.
A lot of people are afraid of death.
Nowadays the pollution is a very serious problem.
Nowadays pollution is a very serious problem.
My main hobby is the photography.
My main hobby is photography.
Do not use the with an uncountable noun when it is used in a general sense: ‘She hates dishonesty.’ ‘Power doesn’t interest him.’
The is used when the sense is restricted: ‘She hates the dishonesty of the man.’ ‘The power enjoyed by politicians doesn’t interest him.’
Diseases such as the AIDS and the cancer cause a lot of suffering.
Diseases such as AIDS and cancer cause a lot of suffering.
Do not use the before the name of a disease: ‘He caught pneumonia and had to spend three weeks in bed.’
Our plane arrived at the Gatwick Airport.
Our plane arrived at Gatwick Airport.
Do not use the before the names of airports and railway stations: ‘Charles de Gaulle (Airport)’, ‘Narita (Airport)’, ‘Charing Cross (Station)’
The language school is in the Malibu Street.
The language school is in Malibu Street.
The is not usually used in the names of streets and roads: ‘Oxford Street’, ‘Fifth Avenue’, ‘Fir Tree Avenue’, ‘Blue Pool Road’. ; Note that when someone mentions ‘the Oxford road’ or ‘the London road’, they mean the road that leads to Oxford/London.
Climbing the Mount Fuji in winter can be very dangerous.
Climbing Mount Fuji in winter can be very dangerous.
Do not use the with the name of a mountain: ‘Mount Everest’, ‘Mount Fuji’, ‘Mount Olympus’. Note, however, that the is used with the names of groups of mountains: ‘the Alps’, ‘the Andes’, ‘the Himalayas’.
They were both found guilty and sent to the prison.
They were both found guilty and sent to prison.
See Note at SCHOOL 1
Yellow River has caused many terrible floods.
The Yellow River has caused many terrible floods.
Always use the with the names of canals , rivers , seas and oceans: : ‘the Suez Canal’, ‘the Ganges’, ‘the (River) Thames ‘, ‘the Atlantic (Ocean)’, ‘the Mediterranean (Sea)’
It is more than ten years since I visited West Indies.
It is more than ten years since I visited the West Indies.
Most plural names begin with the : ‘the Bahamas’, ‘the Himalayas ‘, ‘the United States’, ‘the Philippines’.
This is my second visit to UK.
This is my second visit to the UK.
Use the with any country whose name includes ‘state’, ‘union’, ‘republic’, ‘kingdom’ etc: ‘the UK’, ‘the United Kingdom’, ‘the USA’, ‘the United States’, ‘the People’s Republic of China’.
Only very wealthy tourists can afford to stay at Imperial Hotel.
Only very wealthy tourists can afford to stay at the Imperial Hotel.
The names of hotels and restaurants usually begin with the: ‘the Hilton’, ‘the Mandarin ‘, ‘the Sheraton ‘. ; Note that names which have a possessive form are exceptions: ‘Claridge’s’, ‘Salvo’s’, ‘Tiffany ‘s’
This system was brought to Hong Kong by British.
This system was brought to Hong Kong by the British.
To refer to the people of a country, use the + adjective : ‘the British’, ‘the French’, ‘the Portuguese’, ‘the Swiss’ .
The hotel is not suitable for disabled.
The hotel is not suitable for the disabled.
the poor, the sick, the deaf, the disabled, etc = all people who are poor/sick/deaf/disabled : ‘The rich get richer and the poor get poorer .’ ‘She devoted her life to looking after the sick.’
1129
then
We took a bus to the city centre then caught a train to London.
We took a bus to the city centre and then caught a train to London.
Then is an adverb (NOT a conjunction). It cannot be used to link clauses.
After my father retires, then I shall help him financially.
I After my father retires, I shall help him financially.
Then (= at that time) is used after a time clause only when it introduces a result or consequence. ; Compare : ‘When you’ve seen the trees, then you’ll know why I came to live here.’ (= as a result of seeing the trees)
1130
there
If you aren’t busy is something I’d like to ask you about.
If you aren’t busy, there’s something I’d like to ask you about.
When you say that something exists or takes place , the sentence must have a subject. When there is no other subject , use there: ‘There ‘s a hair in your soup.’ ‘Suddenly there was a loud bang.’ ‘There are two police officers waiting to see you.’ ; Note that in this pattern there has no meaning. It simply fills the subject position.
There was four people in the car.
There were four people in the car.
In Barcelona there is plenty of things for visitors to do.
In Barcelona there are plenty of things for visitors to do.
There was a lot of girls watching the game.
There were a lot of girls watching the game.
Use there is/was when the following noun is singular/uncountable: ‘There was a letter on the mat.’ ‘There was smoke all over the house.’ ; Use there are/were when the following noun is plural: ‘There were babies crying in every room.’ ; ‘There are many times when I would prefer to be alone.’ ; Note that a lot of, plenty of, etc do not affect the number of the verb. ; Compare: ‘There was a lot of traffic on the road.’ ‘There were a lot of cars on the road.’
My sister often goes to the indoor pool but I don’t like going to there.
My sister often goes to the indoor pool but I don’t like going there.
See Note at HERE 2
1131
therefore
She has lived in New York for many years therefore she regards New York as her home.
She has lived in New York for many years and (therefore) regards New York as her home.
Therefore is an adverb (NOT a conjunction) . It cannot be used to link clauses .
See also HOWEVER, NEVERTHELESS
The child looked lost and therefore I asked him if I could help.
The child looked lost and so I asked him if I could help.
Therefore is used mainly in formal styles: ‘Crops have been badly affected by the drought and
therefore food will be in short supply.’
In non-formal styles use so: ‘It was quite late so I didn’t stay long.’
1132
these
The present government doesn’t care enough about the poorer sections of our society. Businessmen are encouraged to exploit workers and make huge profits. In spite of all these, I believe in the principles of free enterprise.
The present government doesn’t care enough about the poorer sections of our society. Businessmen are encouraged to exploit workers and make huge profits. In spite of all this, I believe in the principles of free enterprise.
To refer back to the points that you have just made, use (all) this (NOT (all) these): ‘In spite of all this, we managed to enjoy ourselves.’ ‘I find all this very confusing.’ officers waiting to see you.’ ; Note that in this pattern there has no meaning. It simply fills the subject position.
There was four people in the car.
There were four people in the car.
In Barcelona there is plenty of things for visitors to do.
In Barcelona there are plenty of things for visitors to do.
There was a lot of girls watching the game.
There were a lot of girls watching the game.
Use there is/was when the following noun is singular/uncountable: ‘There was a letter on the mat.’ ‘There was smoke all over the house.’ ; Use there are/were when the following noun is plural: ‘There were babies crying in every room.’ ‘There are many times when I would prefer to be alone.’ ; Note that a lot of, plenty of, etc do not affect the number of the verb. ; Compare: ‘There was a lot of traffic on the road.’ ‘There were a lot of cars on the road.’
My sister often goes to the indoor pool but I don’t like going to there.
My sister often goes to the indoor pool but I don’t like going there.
See Note at HERE 2
1133
therefore
See WHERE 1
She has lived in New York for many years therefore she regards New York as her
home.
She has lived in New York for many years and (therefore) regards New York as
her home.
Therefore is an adverb (NOT a conjunction) . It cannot be used to link clauses . See also HOWEVER,
NEVERTHELESS
The child looked lost and therefore I asked him if I could help.
The child looked lost and so I asked him if I could help.
Therefore is used mainly in formal styles: ‘Crops have been badly affected by the drought and
therefore food will be in short supply.’ In non-formal styles use so: ‘It was quite late so I didn’t stay
long.’
1134
these
The present government doesn’t care enough about the poorer sections of our society. Businessmen are encouraged to exploit workers and make huge profits. In spite of all these, I believe in the principles of free enterprise.
The present government doesn’t care enough about the poorer sections of our society. Businessmen are encouraged to exploit workers and make huge profits.
In spite of all this, I believe in the principles of free enterprise. ; To refer back to the points that you have just made, use (all) this (NOT (all) these): ‘In spite of all this, we managed to enjoy ourselves.’ ‘I find all this very confusing.’
1135
thing
Being punctual is a very important thing.
Being punctual is very important.
Avoid using thing after an adjective when the adjective can be used on its own: ‘To obtain a bank
loan when you don’t have a job can be very difficult.’
Note however the commonly used phrase a/the good thing: ‘Most people agree that democracy
is a good thing.’ ‘The good thing about this school is that the teachers are all so enthusiastic.’
I have a very important thing to ask you.
I have something very important to ask you.
If you need any special thing , please let me know.
If you need anything special, please let me know.
something + adjective, anything + adjective, somewhere + adjective, nothing + adjective, etc: ‘Did
you notice anything unusual?’ ‘Let’s go somewhere different tonight.’
My brother knows many things about England.
My brother knows a lot about England.
Asian countries have learned many things from western countries .
Asian countries have learned a great deal from western countries.
The use of many things often sounds unnatural. Instead, use a lot, a great deal, etc : ‘She said
that she had a lot to do.’ ‘In just one or two sessions you can learn a great deal.’
Note also the phrase all about: ‘The best person to ask is David – he knows all about tropical
plants.’ ( = he knows everything about ... )
1136
think
I was thinking if you would like to have lunch before visiting the museum.
I was wondering if you would like to have lunch before visiting the museum.
To introduce a polite request or invitation , use I was wondering if/whether: ‘I was wondering if
you’d like to play tennis on Saturday.’ ‘Sally was wondering whether you could give her some
advice.’
We should spend more time thinking why people do such terrible things.
We should spend more time thinking about why people do such terrible things.
While she was away, he often thought on her.
While she was away, he often thought about her.
think about sb/sth (= give a lot of thought to): ‘She’s worried about her father and can’t stop
thinking about him.’ ‘Have you ever thought about what you’d like to do for a living?’ ‘You look
serious - what’re you thinking about?’
He’s thinking to make another trip to Italy next month.
He’s thinking about making another trip to Italy next month.
We’re thinking on going to the beach after lunch.
We’re thinking of going to the beach after lunch.
When you are talking about possible future actions, use think about/of doing sth : ‘They’re
thinking of starting their own health food business.’ ‘We’re thinking about going to Disneyworld
again next year.’
He advised me to think deeply about it before making a decision.
He advised me to think seriously about it before making a decision.
think seriously/carefully (NOT deeply) (about sth), especially before making a decision: ‘The job
has a lot of attractions and in my opinion you should think seriously about it.’
Some foreigners are thinking the Japanese are rich.
Some foreigners think the Japanese are rich.
See Language Note at CONTAIN
I think she didn’t understand what you said.
I don ‘t think she understood what you said.
Do not think (that) is more usual than think (that) ... not. This applies to believe, imagine,
suppose, feel etc: ‘I don’t imagine they’ll be coming after all.’ ‘I don’t suppose you could give me a
lift?’
1137
this
Will you be at home on this Sunday afternoon?
Will you be at home this Sunday afternoon?
Will you be at home on Sunday afternoon?
My exams are on this month.
My exams are this month.
See Language Note at TIME
Those
See ONE 5
1138
thought
People’s attitudes and thoughts don’t change overnight.
People’s attitudes and opinions don’t change overnight.
thought = something that you (suddenly) think of, remember or realize: ‘Has the thought ever
occurred to you that he might be guilty?’ ‘Does anyone have any thoughts about where we should eat?’ ; opinion/view =what you feel about something, especially after thinking about it for a long time: ‘Journalists are supposed to report the facts, not personal opinions.’ ‘If you want my opinion - I
think he’s guilty.’
They are prepared to kill in order to defend their thoughts.
They are prepared to kill in order to defend their beliefs.
belief = a strong feeling that something is true or untrue, good or bad etc: ‘In the old days people were persecuted for their religious beliefs.’ ‘The poet’s belief in life after death is not evident in these early poems.’
1139
threat
They used to threat each other with atomic bombs.
They used to threaten each other with atomic bombs.
Threat is a noun: ‘The letter was full of threats and accusations.’ ‘The President said he would
stand firm and not give in to threats from terrorists.’
The verb is threaten: ‘Whenever they have an argument, she threatens to leave him.’ ‘He is
threatening the magazine with legal action unless they publish a full apology.’
1140
throw
He picked up a small stone and threw it to Sally’s window.
He picked up a small stone and threw it at Sally’s window.
You throw an object at the person or thing you want to hit (NOT to ): ‘One day Dr Roseberry lost his temper and threw a book at me.’
Some smokers just throw their cigarette ends.
Some smokers just throw their cigarette ends on the ground.
throw sth + away/down/on the ground etc : ‘You could save the paper for recycling instead of just throwing it away.’
1141
thunder
I heard a terribly loud noise, like a thunder.
I heard a terribly loud noise, like thunder.
We waited for the thunders and lightning to stop.
We waited for the thunder and lightning to stop.
Thunder is an uncountable noun: ‘When Mr Cameron got angry , his voice was as loud as thunder.’
1142
thus
My house is near Greenwich Park and thus we’ll be able to visit the famous Observatory.
My house is near Greenwich Park and so we’ll be able to visit the famous Observatory.
Thus is used only in formal styles: ‘All vaccines carry some risk of side effects. Thus emergency equipment and appropriate drugs should be available at all immunization sessions.’ ; In non-formal styles use so: ‘The smell of paint can give you a headache and so it’s a good idea to keep the windows open.’
1143
till
I managed to drive the car till the nearest hospital.
I managed to drive the car as far as the nearest hospital.
See Note at UNTIL 1
1144
time
The journey takes long time.
The journey takes a long time.
Long time ago there was a queen named Isabel.
A long time ago there was a queen named Isabel.
a long time (WITH a): ‘The film lasted a long time.’
In the present time the situation is getting worse.
At the present time the situation is getting worse.
We both left the building in the same time.
We both left the building at the same time.
Most families get together in Christmas time.
Most families get together at Christmas time.
He was born in the right time and in the right place.
He was born at the right time and in the right place.
See Language Note on page 333
Last time Singapore used to be a fishing village.
Many years ago Singapore used to be a fishing village.
Last time you promised to join me on a trip to Beijing.
The last time we met you promised to join me on a trip to Beijing.
The last time (always with the) refers to a particular occasion: ‘The last time we saw each other
she said that she was going to get married.’ ‘This is the last time I’m coming here!’
To refer to a period in the (distant) past, use previously, formerly, many years ago, in the old days, etc : ‘The new road changed people’s lives enormously - previously the only way of reaching the village was on foot.’ ‘Zimbabwe was formerly known as Rhodesia.’ ‘In the old days the only way to get to India was by ship.’
The fire brigade arrived just on time, before the fire could spread.
The fire brigade arrived just in time, before the fire could spread.
They had to rush to get to work in time.
They had to rush to get to work on time.
in time = not late; early enough: ‘Make sure you arrive in time to see the beginning of the film.’ ; on time = (arriving) at the right time; punctual(ly): ‘The train arrived at 17.28 - exactly on time.’
It didn’t take a long time before we were back home again.
It didn’t take long before we were back home again.
not take/be long (WITHOUT time): ‘The dinner won’t be long - about another five minutes.’
Medical science is developing every time.
Medical science is developing all the time.
I think about you every time.
I think about you all the time.
When you mean ‘continuously’, use all the time (NOT every time) : ‘They seem to be arguing all the time.’ Compare: ‘Every time I go skiing, I come home feeling years younger.’ ; See SPEND 1, 2
We went to the cinema to spend the time until the train arrived.
We went to the cinema to pass the time until the train arrived.
When you have nothing important to do and you spend time doing something in order to avoid
being bored, you pass the time : ‘At the airport we bought a pack of playing cards to help pass the time.’
We spent a very good time in New York.
We had a very good time in New York.
have a good/marvellous time (NOT spend): ‘In those days all I cared about was having a good time.’
1145
times
Many times there is nothing worth watching on TV.
Very often there is nothing worth watching on TV.
Do not use many times unless you are thinking about the total number of times that something happens. ‘I’ve tried phoning her many times during the past week, but nobody answers.’ ‘He’d told me the same story many times before.’
When you are thinking about the general frequency with which some-[thing happens, use often: ‘When are tired, they often make mistakes.’
He couldn’t see where he was going and fell down many times .
He couldn’t see where he was going and kept falling down.
People tell me many times that America is a dangerous country.
People are always telling me that America is a dangerous country.
If you do something repeatedly, you keep doing it or you are always doing it: ‘Why does she keep writing to you?’ ‘At school I was always’ getting into trouble.’
The manager’s timetable next week is very busy.
The manager’s schedule next week is very busy.
Timetable = a list or plan showing the times when lessons take place or the times when buses, ; trains etc arrive and leave: ‘According to my timetable, history is on Mondays and Thursdays.’ ; schedule = a detailed plan of all the things that have to be done during a certain period: ‘It’s important that we all try and keep to the schedule.’ ‘The project is running 6 months behind schedule .’
1146
tiresome
The flight from Hong Kong to London was very tiresome.
The flight from Hong Kong to London was very tiring.
After two tiresome days, we both needed some sleep.
After two tiring days, we both needed some sleep.
tiresome= annoying or irritating: ‘I find these so-called jokes extremely tiresome. ; ‘tiring = causing tiredness; exhausting: ‘Looking at a computer screen all day can be very tiring.’
1147
title
The newspaper titles were all about the earthquake.
The newspaper headlines were all about the earthquake.
title = the name of a book, play, painting, piece of music etc: ‘I can remember the title of the book
but not the author.’ ; headline = the heading above a report in a newspaper, especially at the top of the front page: ‘Have you seen today’s headlines? There’s been another car bomb in London.’
1148
titled
He was reading a short story by Saki titled ‘The Open Window’.
He was reading a short story by Saki called ‘The Open Window’.
She sent me an article from Life Magazine titled ‘A Soldier’s Anguish’.
She sent me an article from Life Magazine entitled’ Soldier’s Anguish’.
To introduce the name of a book, story, film, article, song, painting etc, use be called or, especially in formal styles, (be) entitled: ‘Her latest novel is called Educating Peter.’ Compare: ‘The title of her latest novel is Educating Peter.’
1149
to
At that moment he noticed a man running to him.
At that moment he noticed a man running towards him.
When you are talking about direction, use towards (NOT to): ‘If you walk along the river bank
towards Skipton, you come to a bridge.’ ‘Keep going towards Manchester until you see the sign for the airport.’
He came into the shop and went to the woman behind the counter.
He came into the shop and went up to the woman behind the counter.
She stood up, walked to John, and asked him what he was doing.
She stood up, walked over to John, and asked him what he was doing.
When you go towards someone and stop in front of them. you go up to, over to or across to them
(NOT to or near to): ‘One of the Japanese students walked slowly up to me and, with a huge smile,
banded me a rose.’
1150
toast
See NOT 1
I usually have a cup of coffee and a toast for breakfast.
I usually have a cup of coffee and some toast for breakfast.
You make some toasts and I’ll set the table.
You make some toast and I’ll set the table.
Toast is an uncountable-noun: ‘There’s some toast for you in the kitchen.’ ‘How many pieces/slices of toast would you like?’
1151
toilet
One of the children wanted to go to toilet.
One of the children wanted to go to the toilet.
go to the toilet (WITH the): ‘He won’t be long. He’s just gone to the toilet.’
1152
too
I was too happy when I received you r letter today.
I was very happy when I received your letter today.
Bearing in mind that it is too far from here , we should make an early start.
Bearing in mind that it is a long way from here, we should make an early start.
too = more than is good, reasonable or acceptable: ‘He was driving too fast and couldn’t stop in time.’ ‘The meat was too tough to eat.’ Compare: ‘I was very tired but not too tired to go out.’
For some reason they didn’t receive the fax and your letter hasn’t arrived too.
For some reason they didn’t receive the fax and your letter hasn’t arrived either.
In a negative clause use either (NOT too/also/as well): ‘The cheese cake was disappointing and the coffee wasn’t very special either.’ Compare: ‘The food was excellent and the service was good too.’
In my opinion, this is a too traditional approach.
In my opinion, this is too traditional an approach.
too + adjective + a/an + noun: ‘I’d accept the offer if I were you - it’s too good an opportunity to miss.’
1153
too many
It’s an interesting magazine with too many good ideas.
It’s an interesting magazine with a lot of good ideas.
too many = more than is acceptable or required: ‘I don’t like television there are too many advertisements.’ ‘You can’t have too many friends.’
1154
too much
There are simply too much people in the world.
There are simply too many people in the world.
I noticed that he had had a couple of drinks too much.
I noticed that he had had a couple of drinks too many.
See MUCH 1
If you are too much selfish , nobody will like you,’ she said.
If you are too selfish, nobody will like you,’ she said.
The English course was too much difficult for me.
The English course was too difficult for me.
too much + noun: ‘I hope I haven’t caused you too much trouble.’ ; too + adjective/adverb (WITHOUT much): ‘The dress was too expensive. ‘ ‘If you speak too quickly, he doesn’t understand.’ Compare: ‘The English course was much/far too difficult for me.’
1155
top
You will find my address on top of the letter.
You will find my address at the top of the letter.
at the top/bottom of a page or sheet of paper (NOT on): ‘Please write your name clearly at thetop of each page. Compare: ‘I eventually found the keys on top of the television.’
1156
touch
People living in the city were not touched by the famine.
People living in the city were not affected by the famine.
When you mean ‘have an effect on’, use affect (NOT touch): ‘How will these new taxes affect people on low incomes?’ ‘Farms in the south of the country have been seriously affected by the drought.’
It’s good to go out to work because you get in touch with other people.
It’s good to go out to work because you come into contact with other people.
get in touch with = communicate with (someone) by letter or telephone: Don’t wait until Christmas before you get in touch.’ ‘Mrs Taylor wants you to get in touch with her.’ come into contact with = meet: ‘In my profession I come into contact with a lot of teachers.’
1157
touristic
It is one of the most popular touristic resorts in Spain.
It is one of the most popular tourist resorts in Spain.
Touristic and touristy are used, especially in informal styles, to describe a place that is unpleasantly full of things for tourists to see and do: ‘He refuses to go there any more - it’s become too touristy.’ When you simply mean ‘visited or preferred by tourists’, use tourist + noun: ‘London is full of tourist attractions.’ ‘During the tourist season the hotels are packed.’
1158
training
I made my training with the Swiss Bank in London.
I did my training with the Swiss Bank in London.
See Language Note at DO
1159
translate
The novel has been translated to English and French.
The novel has been translated into English and French.
translate sth (from one language) into another language (NOT to) : ‘Each letter has to be translated from Swedish into German.’
1160
transport
Some countries don’t have a public transport.
Some countries don’t have (any) public transport.
Transport is an uncountable noun: ‘How will you get there without transport?’ ‘People should be encouraged to use public transport.’
1161
transportation
Apart from housing , transportation is also a problem.
Apart from housing, transport is also a problem.
In British English transportation usually refers to the process or business of moving things, especially goods, from one place to another : ‘Information regarding the transportation and storage of nuclear waste is difficult to obtain .’ The word for the system that carries passengers (or goods) from one place to another is transport: ‘I spent most of my money on hotels, food and transport .’ ‘Trains are still my favourite form of transport.’ Note that in American English transportation is used for this meaning.
1162
travel
The travel takes about half an hour.
The journey takes about half an hour.
For long travels we use the train.
For long journeys we use the train.
See Language Note on next page
He was exhausted from all the travels.
He was exhausted from all the travelling.
See Language Note on next page
1163
treasure
There is always controversy when a treasure is discovered.
There is always controversy when treasure is discovered.
Treasure ( = a collection of valuable objects) is an uncountable noun: ‘It’s an adventure story about a search for buried treasure.’
1164
tremble
It was so cold that I couldn’t stop trembling.
It was so cold that I couldn’t stop shivering.
You tremble when you are afraid, nervous, upset or excited: ‘As she opened the envelope, her hands started trembling and she started to cry.’ ‘She trembled with excitement just at the thought of seeing him again.’ When you are cold , you shiver: ‘I stood at the bus stop shivering and wishing that I’d worn my coat.’
1165
trouble
I’m sorry to cause you so many troubles.
I’m sorry to cause you so much trouble.
I’m having some troubles with my supervisor.
I’m having some trouble with my supervisor.
Trouble (= difficulties or problems) is an uncountable noun: ‘I hope you didn’t have any trouble
getting here.’ ‘His back has been giving him a lot of trouble recently .’
Note the alternative: ‘I’m sorry to cause you so many problems.’
Sometimes my little brother is a real trouble.
Sometimes my little brother is a real nuisance.
A person or thing that annoys you or gives you problems is a nuisance: ‘The post office closes early today, which is a bit of a nuisance.’ ‘A/an! Stop being a nuisance and find something to do!’
1166
true
I hope all your dreams become true.
I hope all your dreams come true.
come true (NOT become): ‘His dream came true on the day apartheid was abolished.’ ‘If scientists’ predictions come true, the Earth’s temperature will rise by five degrees in the next fifty years.’
1167
trust
After he was caught stealing, nobody trusted in him.
After he was caught stealing, nobody trusted him.
trust in = (formal or literary) have faith in: ‘All will be well as long as you trust in God.’ ; trust (WITHOUT in) = believe that someone is honest (and will not hurt or deceive you): ‘He’s just a bit too friendly and I’m afraid I don’t trust him.’ ‘I’m the only person he’ll trust to look after his money.’
1168
truth
We all thought he was saying the truth.
We all thought he was telling the truth.
tell the truth (NOT say): ‘I’m still not convinced that he’s telling the truth.’
1169
turn back
Having woken up, he sat up in his seat and turned back to see who was making all the noise.
Having woken up, he sat up in his seat and turned round to see who was making all the noise.
turn back = stop and begin to return to the place you started from: ‘If the bridge has been destroyed, we’ll have to turn back.’ turn round (AmE turn around) = move so that you are looking in the opposite direction: ‘If you turn round, I’ll fasten your dress for you.’
1170
turn round
The alarm clock rang at 7.45 but I just turned round and went back to sleep.
The alarm clock rang at 7.45 but I just turned over and went back to sleep.
When you are lying down and you move so that you are looking in the opposite direction, you turn over: ‘Every time I turn over, the bed squeaks .’
1171
turn up
George turned up to be the father of one of my old school friends.
George turned out to be the father of one of my old school friends.
Our presence turned up to be unnecessary.""‘.
Our presence turned out to be unnecessary.
Turn up means ‘arrive, appear, or be found’: ‘He turned up at the party dressed in pink pyjamas’ ‘I can’t find my keys, but I expect they’ll turn up somewhere.’ When you are talking about the final result of something, use turn out: ‘After a bad start, the party turned out to be a great success.’ 
After dinner we watched a film in TV.
After dinner we watched a film on TV.
See Note at RADIO
1172
type
The manager of the shop told me that he was not responsible for these type of fault.
The manager of the shop told me that he was not responsible for these types of fault.
See Note at KINO OF 1
This type of shoes don’t damage the grass.
This type of shoe doesn’t damage the grass.
These types of shoe/s don’t damage the grass.
See Note at KIND OF 2
1173
typical
Angelo took us to a typical restaurant.
Angelo took us to a typical Italian restaurant.
After typical you usually mention the exact group to which someone or something belongs: ‘McGarron looked like a typical American car salesman.’
‘The old fireplace and the few pieces of typical Basque furniture give the room a homely atmosphere.’
After dinner it is typical to sing carols.
After dinner we usually sing carols.
After dinner it is customary to sing carols.
When you are talking about what usually happens at a particular time of the year, use usually or (especially in formal styles) customary: ‘It’s customary to kiss the bride.’
1174
UK
This is my first visit to UK.
This is my first visit to the UK.
See Note at THE 12
1174
under
Prices are not allowed to fall under this level.
Prices are not allowed to fall below this level.
See Note at BELOW 1
1175
understand
People find it difficult to understand about the Japanese.
People find it difficult to understand the Japanese.
understand sb/sth (WITHOUT about): ‘After twenty years of marriage, we still don’t understand each other.’
You have to know our culture in order to understand us deeply.
You have to know our culture in order to understand us properly.
You have to know our culture in order to really understand US.
Reading helps us to understand the world more deeply.
Reading helps us to understand the world better.
understand sb/sth properly/better; fully/really understand sb/sth (NOT deeply): ‘Make sure that you understand the instructions properly before you begin.’ ‘Nobody fully understands how the
drug actually works.’ Note the alternative: ‘Reading helps us to develop our understanding of the world.’
At first I wasn’t understanding anything.
At first I didn’t understand anything.
See Language Note at CONTAIN
1176
unemployment
The unemployment is a serious problem in my country:’
Unemployment is a serious problem in my country.
See THE 4
1177
uniform
Every year we make new uniforms for the carnival.
Every year we make new costumes for the carnival.
uniform = a set of clothes worn by soldiers, police officers, nurses etc when on duty, and children in some schools: ‘Some children hate having to wear their school uniform.’ ; costume = a set of clothes worn by actors or public performers: ‘She used to work for a theatre company; designing and making costumes.’ ‘The tourist guides at the castle all wear medieval costumes.’
1178
unique
It’s one of the most unique pieces of architecture in Spain.
It’s one of the most unusual pieces of architecture in Spain.
Unique usually describes something that is the only one of its kind: ‘Lennon will be remembered for his songs and for his unique sense of humour.’
In informal styles unique is sometimes used with more/most/rather etc. to mean ‘unusual’: ‘This rather unique little restaurant is very popular with the locals.’ This use of unique is considered by careful users to be incorrect.
1178
United Kingdom
I spent two months travelling around United Kingdom.
I spent two months travelling around the United Kingdom.
See Note at THE 12
1178
United Nations
The purpose of United Nations is to protect human rights.
The purpose of the United Nations is to protect human rights.
See Note at THE 12
1178
United States
I met people from Canada and United States.
I met people from Canada and the United States.
See Note at THE 12
1179
university
I am studying sociology at the London University.
I am studying sociology at London University.
I am studying sociology at the University of London.
London/Leeds University (WITMOUT the)
the University of London/Leeds (WITH the)
In formal written styles the usual form is. ‘the University of London’.
After leaving school, we all went to the university.
After leaving school, we all went to university.
Users of American English would say: ‘After graduating from high school, we all went to college.’
See Note at SCHOOL 1
My sister is studying music in university.
My sister is studying music at university.
I want to study Public Administration in the University of Southern California.
I want to study Public Administration at the University of Southern California.
see in 5
1180
unknown
I don’t like driving on unknown roads .
I don’t like driving on unfamiliar roads.
The names on the list were unknown to me .
The names on the list were unfamiliar to me.
unknown usually describes something that people in general do not know or know very little about: ‘Whether or not there is life on any of these planets remains unknown.’ ‘There are still some unknown species of animals in the South American rainforests.’ ; Something that you yourself have not seen, heard or experienced before is, unfamiliar (to you): The voice on the phone sounded unfamiliar.’ ‘It took Steven some time to get used to his unfamiliar surroundings.’
1181
unless
Bring something to eat unless you get hungry.
Bring something to eat in case you get hungry.
When you are talking about something that is done as a precaution, use in case (NOT unless): ‘You should take a book with you in case you have to wait.’
We can go in my car unless if you prefer to walk.
We can go in my car unless you prefer to walk.
Unless (= if … not) is NOT used with if: That’s all for today unless anyone has any questions.’ ‘Don’t say anything unless you have to.’
He won’t go to sleep unless you will tell him a story.
He won’t go to sleep unless you tell him story.
See Language Note at WILL 4
1182
unsatisfactory
To tell you the truth, it’s the most unsatisfactory job I’ve ever had.
To tell you the truth, it’s the most unsatisfying job I’ve ever had.
See Note at SATISFACTORY
1183
until
The new tunnel means that we can drive until London.
The new tunnel means that we can drive (all the way) to London.
The magazine covers everything from politics until what’s happening in Hollywood.
The magazine covers everything from politics to what’s happening in Hollywood.
Until and till are usually used in connection with time: The shops are open until six o’clock on weekdays.’
When you are talking about distance, area, or scope, use to Of as far as: ‘Do you know which bus goes to Marble Arch?’ ‘I got a lift as far as Sheffield and then I took a train.’ ‘You can get anything from a sandwich to a three-course meal.’
The school caters for children until the age of eleven.
The school caters for children up to the age of eleven.
up to a particular age (NOT until): The competition is open to all children up to the age of eleven.’
I will have finished this book until tomorrow.
I will have finished this book by tomorrow.
Could you let us know your decision until the end of October.
Could you let us know your decision by the end of October.
Until is used for an action or state continuing up to a certain time: ‘The shops are open until five thirty.’ I’ll wait here until you get back.’
By is used for an action which happens before or no later than a certain time: ‘I have to submit my dissertation by the end of next year.’
I’ll wait here until you will return.
I’ll wait here until you return.
See Language Note at WILL
1184
until now
Until now we have received over sixty applications.
So far we have received over sixty applications.
I’ve only been here for two months until now.
I’ve only been here for two months so far.
When you are talking about a situation that is (probably) going to continue into the future, use so far or (in formal styles) to date: ‘So far this week it’s hardly stopped raining.’ ‘To date there have been ten attempts on the President’s life.’
Her husband is alive until now.
Her husband is still alive.
Until now their customs and beliefs remain unchanged .
To this day their customs and beliefs remain unchanged.
When you want to say that something is the same now as it was in the past, use still: ‘I’ve read the first chapter three times and I still don’t understand it.’ ‘Despite her doctor’s advice, she still eats anything she likes.’ To give emphasis to this meaning, especially at the beginning of a sentence, use to this day ... (still): ‘To this day I still don’t understand why they got divorced.’
The letter hasn’t arrived until now.
The letter hasn’t arrived yet.
When you mean that up to the moment of speaking something has not happened, use yet: ‘Her plane hasn’t landed yet.’
It’s the best hotel that I’ve stayed at until now.
It’s the best hotel that I’ve ever stayed at.
When you mean ‘at any time (in the past) up to the moment of speaking’, use ever: ‘This is the worst earthquake that the country has ever experienced.’
1185
unusual
It is not unusual that two families share the same house.
It is not unusual for two families to share the same house.
See USUAL 1
1186
up-to-date
Italian women like to keep up with up-to-date fashions.
Italian women like to keep up with the latest fashions.
Television also gives us the up-to-date news and information.
Television also gives us the latest news and information.
up-to-date (also up to date) = (1) (of machinery, equipment, methods, books etc) modern, especially because based on the most recent knowledge, information, inventions etc: ‘Our computer system is reasonably up-to-date but it’s not flexible enough.’ ‘This map is no good. I need one that’s up-to-date.’ (2) (of people) having the most recent information about something: ‘The aim of the survey is to
find out how many doctors keep up to date with developments in medical research.’ latest = See Note at LAST 4 USA
I was travelling on a flight from USA to Paris.
I was travelling on a flight from the USA to Paris.
See Note at THE 12
1187
use
The meals we use to eat are very simple.
The meals we (usually) eat are very simple.
When I’m not busy, I use to play the guitar.
When I’m not busy, I (usually) play the guitar.
When you are talking about a present habit, use the present simple tense (NOT use to do): ‘I (usually) have two cups of coffee at breakfast.’
In my previous job I use to travel a lot.
In my previous job I used to travel a lot.
When you are talking about a past habit, use used to do sth (with silent d): ‘Before I had the accident I used to cycle to work.’
It took me a long time to get use to the local accent.
It took me a long time to get used to the local accent.
be/get used to (doing) sth (with silent d) = be in or get into the habit of doing/hearing/seeing etc
something, so that it no longer seems strange or difficult: ‘Being a city girl, she wasn’t used to sitting on a horse.’ ‘I didn’t like the taste of the water at first, but I’m getting used to it.’
On a beautiful day like today it’s no use staying at home.
On a beautiful day like today there’s no point in staying at home.
It’s no use having lessons if you don’t want to learn.
There’s no point in having lessons if you don’t want to learn.
Use it’s no use/good doing sth when you mean that a particular action will not help to deal with a
need or difficulty: ‘For spellings, it’s no use looking in a grammar book. What you need is a dictionary.’
When you mean that something has no useful purpose, use there’s no point in doing sth: ‘There’s
no point in having a dictionary if you never use it.’
There’s no use in waiting any longer.
There’s no point in waiting any longer.
it’s no use ... (NOT there): ‘It’s no use complaining.’ there’s no point ... (NOT it) ‘There’s no point in getting upset.’
1188
used
We soon got used to live in the countryside.
We soon got used to living in the countryside.
See Note at USE 3
1189
useless
In garage sales people get rid of their useless things.
In garage sales people get rid of the things they don’t use.
If something is useless it is not useful: ‘These scissors are useless - they don’t even cut paper.’ ‘The
report contains a lot of useless information.’
I don’t like history because I think it’s useless for me.
I don’t like history because I think it’s of no use to me.
Why do we have to learn useless words?
Why do we have to learn words that are of no use?
If something does not help you to do what you want to do, it is (of) no use (to you): ‘I use my
computer for writing and so a typewriter is of no use to me.’ ‘This map’s no use - it doesn’t show
the minor roads.’
Staying in a big hotel would involve useless expense.
Staying in a big hotel would involve unnecessary expense.
Without all this useless packaging, food would be cheaper.
Without all this unnecessary packaging, food would be cheaper.
If something is not necessary, it is unnecessary (NOT useless): ‘People who refuse to stop smoking are taking an unnecessary risk.’ ‘Sports that cause animals unnecessary suffering should be banned.’
1190
usual
In Finland it’s usual that women go out to work.
In Finland it’s usual for women to go out to work.
it’s usual/unusual (for sb) to do sth (NOT that): ‘Is it usual for him to be so late?’ ‘It’s very unusual
to see these flowers at this time of the year.’
I thought it was just a usual parcel but then it began to move across the table.
I thought it was just an ordinary parcel but then it began to move across the table.
usual = that is usually used, seen, done etc: ‘She was sitting in her usual chair by the fire.’ ‘We
arranged to meet at the usual time.’ ‘He was speaking in his usual calm tone.’ ; ordinary = without any special features or qualities: ‘It was just an ordinary house in an ordinary street.’ ‘From the moment I met her, I knew she was no ordinary kind of girl.’
1191
usually
As usually, he arrived five minutes late.
As usual, he arrived five minutes late.
The food wasn’t the same as usually.
The food wasn’t the same as usual.
as usual (NOT as usually): ‘John’s late as usual.’ ‘As usual, everyone was out in the garden when I
arrived.’ ; the same as usual (NOT ... as usually): ‘Apart from his hair, he looked the same as usual.’
1192
utterly
I utterly hope you won’t be angry with me.
I sincerely hope you won’t be angry with me.
I have to make sure that our customers are utterly satisfied.
I have to make sure that our customers are completely satisfied.
Utterly is usually used with words that have a negative meaning or express strong disapproval such as (adjectives) ridiculous, absurd, irrelevant, useless, wrong, impossible, (adjectival participles) confused, amazed, dejected, ruined, (verbs) reject, detest, destroy:
‘This new tin opener is utterly useless.’ ‘The whole idea is utterly absurd.’ ‘I’m utterly amazed.’ ‘The entire building was utterly destroyed.’
1193
vain
The police did their best to rescue the hostages but in vain.
The police did their best to rescue the hostages but without success.
She tried to get him to listen but in vain.
She tried in vain to get him to listen.
She tried to get him to listen but it was all in vain.
She tried to get him to listen but to no avail.
In vain usually comes after verbs such as try, search, hunt, look, wait, fight etc or after the verb be: ‘Her voice was beginning to rise and she tried in vain to control it.’ ‘A team of surgeons battled in vain to save him.’ ‘I was never in any doubt that my efforts would be in vain.’ In other situations, use without success or to no avail: ‘They did everything they could to protect her, but (all) to no avail.
1194
valuable
The magazine is printed on very valuable paper.
The magazine is printed on very expensive paper.
They always buy valuable brands such as Polo, Louis Vuitton, and Yves St Laurent.
They always buy expensive brands such as Polo, Louis Vuitton, and Yves St Laurent.
valuable = worth a lot of money: ‘Your stamp collection must be quite valuable by now.’ ‘If the painting is genuine, it could be extremely valuable.’ ; expensive = costing a lot of money, especially when compared with other things of the same type: ‘He only buys silk ties, even though they’re more expensive.’ ‘Why are these bananas so expensive?’
They will steal all your money and valuable things.
They will steal all your money and valuables.
When you mean valuable things such as jewellery, cameras, etc, use valuables (always plural): ‘The management advises guests to deposit their valuables in the hotel safe.’
The small hotels are usually very valuable for money but the big ones are expensive.
The small hotels are usually good value but the big ones are expensive.
If something is worth what you pay for it, it is good value (for money) or (good) value for money: ‘At just under $90 the Sony is very good value.’ ‘Having paid £200 for the suit, I expect to get better value for money.’
1195
value
The large size is very value.
The large size is very good value.
See Note at VALUABLE 3
In any case, the car gives you an exceptional value for money.
In any case, the car gives you exceptional value for money.
be good/excellent/exceptional value (for money)(without a/an): ‘£600 might seem expensive for
a two-week holiday, but when you look at all the extras it’s quite good value.’
I buy a lot of fresh fruit and vegetable.
I buy a lot of fresh fruit and vegetables.
Unlike fruit, vegetable is a countable noun: ‘A/an has never been keen on vegetables.’
1196
very
He looked very funny that I couldn’t help laughing.
He looked so funny that I couldn’t help laughing.
so + adjective/adverb + that clause: ‘The music was so loud that I started to get a headache.’
Meno Park in Central Tokyo is very huge.
Meno Park in Central Tokyo is (absolutely) huge.
The traffic jams are very terrible.
The traffic jams are (absolutely) terrible.
I’m very convinced that he is telling the truth.
I’m (absolutely) convinced that he is telling the truth.
Do not use very or extremely with adjectives which already have a strong meaning, e.g. boiling (= very hot), convinced (= very sure), exhausted (= very tired), huge (= very big), terrible (= very bad). If you want to increase the strength of these words, use absolutely or (depending on the particular adjective) completely, totally, utterly or quite: ‘By the time I got home I was completely exhausted.’ With adjectives which do not have a strong meaning, use very or extremely (NOT absolutely, completely etc): ‘By the time I got back home I was very tired.’
Their services are very appreciated by the hospital management.
Their services are greatly appreciated by the hospital management.
Very may be used with past participles that are like adjectives and refer to a state: ‘very bored/worried/interested/pleased’. Past participles with a strongly passive meaning are usually modified by greatly or (very) much: ‘His work is much admired.’ ‘This courageous woman, who helped so many of us, will be greatly missed.’
Although he was very in love with Marianne, he wanted to marry a rich heiress.
Although he was very much in love with Marianne, he wanted to marry a rich
heiress..
Very is not used before a phrase beginning with a preposition (e.g. ‘in love with’, ‘in need of’, ‘at
odds with’). However, in such cases it is often possible to use very much: ‘These proposals are very
much in keeping with the President’s own ideas.’
Note the alternative: ‘Although he was deeply in love ...
1197
very much
I enjoyed very much my stay in the USA.
I enjoyed my stay in the USA very much.
I would like very much to visit some of the places that I have been reading about.
I would very much like to visit some of the places that I have been reading about.
Do not put very much between a verb (e.g. ‘enjoyed’) and its object (e.g. ‘my stay in the USA’).
When the object is short, very much goes at the end of the sentence or in front of the verb. When
the object is long, very much usually goes in front of the verb: ‘I very much hope that you and your
family have a safe journey.’
It costs very much.
It costs a lot (of money).
New doors cost very much because wood is so expensive.
New doors cost a lot (of money) because wood is so expensive.
With some verbs (e.g. cost, pay, charge, eat) it is possible to use very much in questions and
negative sentences: ‘Did it cost very much?’ ‘It didn’t cost very much.’
However, in affirmative sentences very much is usually replaced by a lot: ‘It will cost quite a lot to
have the job done properly.’
1198
view
The view of all the blood on the ground made her feel ill.
The sight of all the blood on the ground made her feel ill.
View refers to the whole area that you can see from somewhere, especially when you can see a
long way into the distance: ‘His studio has a spectacular view over Sydney Harbour Bridge.’ ‘I’ve booked a room with a view of the sea.’
When you are talking about the act of seeing something, use the sight of: ‘The sight of so many people dying from disease and hunger is something I will never forget.’
Come over here and watch the view.
Come over here and look at the view.
We just sat there and saw the view.
We just sat there and admired the view.
From the top of the tower you see a wonderful view of the city.
From the top of the tower you get a wonderful view of the city.
look at/admire/enjoy the view (NOT see/watch): ‘We asked the coach driver to stop so that we could look at the view.’ ; have/get a (good) view from a particular place (NOT see): ‘If you stand where I am, you get a much better view.’
1199
violence
Some of these films are full of the violence.
Some of these films are full of violence.
See Note at THE 4
1200
vision
We’d like to know your personal vision of the situation.
We’d like to know your personal view of the situation.
vision = a picture in the mind of what the future will be like: ‘This romantic vision of a world ; without war is far removed from reality.’
view = the way you think about something that exists now: ‘This report sets out the views of our members very clearly.’ ‘At that time there was a widely-held view that fascism was not a threat to Europe.’
1201
visit
Afterwards we visited a restaurant for dinner.
Afterwards we went to a restaurant for dinner.
You visit places that are of special interest, especially when you are a tourist or official guest: ‘By
the end of the day I was fed up with visiting museums and all the travelling around.’ ‘Later in the
day Her Majesty will be visiting the Great Ormond Street Children’s Hospital.’
You go to a restaurant, market, library, someone’s house etc: ‘If it rains, we could always go to
the cinema.’ ‘I’ve got to go to the dentist’s.’
Thank you for visiting me .
Thank you for coming to see me.
He’s gone back to Iran to pay a visit to his family .
He’s gone back to Iran to see his family.
When you are talking about visiting someone for pleasure or business, go/come to see sb (or
go/come and see sb) usually sounds more natural than visit sb or pay sb a visit: ‘She’s gone to
see her brother.’ ‘Let’s go and see Peter and take him some grapes.’
I’ve been Visiting a language school in Cambridge.
I’ve been going to a language school in Cambridge.
go to or (more formal) attend a school, college, class etc (= go there regularly as a student): ‘Her
son goes to a small private school near Chingford.’ ‘I’ve started going to evening classes.’
Compare: ‘Government inspectors visit the school twice a year.’
If I ever visit to Canada, I’ll go when it’s warm.
If I ever visit Canada, I’ll go when it’s warm.
You visit a place (WITHOUT to): ‘He has visited all the countries in Europe.’
Compare: ‘The President’s July visit to El Salvador has been postponed.’ (noun + to)
1202
vocabulary
The article contained a lot of American English vocabularies.
The article contained a lot of American English words.
vocabulary = all the words in a language or all the words (in a language) that someone knows: ‘English has a vast vocabulary.’ ‘By the end of the course students should have an active vocabulary of around 2000 words.’
1203
voice
‘You’re late!’ he said with an angry voice.
‘You’re late!’ he said in an angry voice.
in a loud/deep/sad etc voice (NOT with): ‘She spoke in such a soft voice that we couldn’t hear anything.’ Compare: ‘She speaks with a strong accent.’
Students should feel able to voice out their opinions.
Students should feel able to voice their opinions.
voice your feelings and opinions (WITHOUT out): ‘I’m not just voicing my own opinions - we all feel the same.’ ‘Whenever one of us voices the slightest disapproval, the chairman takes offence.’
1204
voluntary
The hospital could not operate without voluntaries.
The hospital could not operate without voluntary helpers.
In my opinion, these young voluntaries should be congratulated.
In my opinion, these young volunteers should be congratulated.
Voluntary is an adjective (NOT a noun). It describes someone who agrees to work without being
paid, or work that is not paid: ‘On Saturdays she does voluntary work at an old people’s home.’
The noun is volunteer = someone who decides to do something when they are not forced to do it:
‘I need three volunteers to help me move the piano:’
1205
vote
Next year a new president will be voted.
Next year a new president will be elected.
On the day of the vote, they couldn’t be bothered to go and vote.
On the day of the election, they couldn’t be bothered to go and vote.
vote = show which person or which course of action you prefer, especially by marking a piece of
paper or raising your hand: ‘Who will you be voting for at the next election?’ ‘Fifty-three per cent
of Danes voted in favour of the Maastricht treaty.’
elect = choose a leader or representative by voting: ‘Roman Catholic cardinals are meeting at the
Vatican to elect a new Pope.’ ‘Williams was elected with a clear majority.’
election = an occasion when people vote: ‘Who’s going to win the next election?’
People are not allowed to vote more than one candidate.
People are not allowed to vote for more than one candidate.
vote for sb: ‘I’m not prepared to vote for someone who keeps changing his mind.’
Every night they voted what they would do the next day.
Every night they voted on what they would do the next day.
vote on a particular question or issue: ‘The Council voted on a motion to close the hospital.’
1206
voyage
She didn’t say much about her voyage to Germany.
She didn’t say much about her trip to Germany.
On the first day we’ll rest because the voyage will be tiring.
On the first day we’ll rest because the journey will be tiring.
See Language Note at TRIP
1207
wage
He has an annual wage of $40,000.
He has an annual salary of $40,000.
See Note at SALARY
1208
wages
The company directors receive very high wages.
The company directors receive very high salaries.
See Note at SALARY
1209
wait
I’m waiting a letter from my boyfriend.
I’m expecting a letter from my boyfriend.
Anyway, I’II wait for you next weekend.
Anyway, I’II expect you next weekend.
wait = stay somewhere until someone or something comes: ‘I’ll wait here until you get back.’ ‘It’s quicker to walk than wait for a bus.’ expect = believe that someone or something is going to come: ‘The train is expected to arrive in the next five minutes.’ ‘I can’t leave the house I’m expecting visitors.’
I stopped and waited the truck to pass.
I stopped and waited for the truck to pass.
I’II wait you outside.
I’II wait for you outside.
wait for sb/sth: ‘I’II wait for you outside the post office.’ ‘What can I do while I’m waiting for the paint to dry?’
I’m waiting to see the photographs with great impatience.
I can’t wait to see the photographs.
In informal styles, to show that you are really looking forward to something, use I (just) can’t wait or I can hardly wait: ‘I can’t wait to see you again.’ ‘I can hardly wait for the holidays to begin.’
1210
wanna
We didn’t wanna miss the train.
We didn’t want to miss the train.
See Note at GONNA
1211
wanna
My parents wanted that I should go to a different university.
My parents wanted me to go to a different university.
‘Do you want I take you to his house?’ she asked ‘Do you want me to take you to
his house?’ she asked.
want sb to do sth: ‘The doctor wants me to go for another check-up in two weeks’ time.’
I want you to send me the coat if you find it.
I’d like you to send me the coat if you find it.
For polite requests, use would like (NOT want): ‘If you’re not too busy, I’d like you to have a look
at my homework.’
1212
was
Everybody looked at him as if he was from another planet.
Everybody looked at him as if he were from another planet.
In formal styles, when you are talking about an unreal situation, use were (NOT was): ‘If the
motorway were extended, farming would be severely disrupted.’
1213
wash
I wash my body and then get dressed.
I have a bath/shower and then get dressed.
He’s gone upstairs to wash.
He’s gone upstairs to have a wash.
When you talk about someone washing themselves, you usually use have a wash/bath/shower: ‘I always feel better after I’ve had a good wash.’
See also Language Note at MYSELF
1214
waste
The report deals with the problem of nuclear wastes.
The report deals with the problem of nuclear waste.
See Language Note at INFORMATION
1215
way
He explained the ways how we can help to protect the sea.
He explained how we can help to protect the sea.
describe/explain/examine (etc) how ... (WITHOUT the way/s): ‘You have to know how their minds work.’ ‘In this morning’s talk I’ll be looking at how smaller companies are dealing with these problems.’
Note the alternative: ‘He explained the ways in which we can help to protect the sea.’
She loves the farm and refuses to change her way of living.
She loves the farm and refuses to change her way of life.
See Note at LIFE 2
1216
wear
Then I wore some clothes and went downstairs.
Then I put on some clothes and went downstairs.
See Language Note below
1217
weather
We had a miserable weather while on holiday.
We had miserable weather while on holiday.
See Language Note at INFORMATION
1218
week
We knew that a four weeks holiday would bring us closer together.
We knew that a four-week holiday would bring us closer together.
See Language Note at HUNDRED
See Language Note AT TIME
1219
weekend
I seldom stay at home on weekend.
I seldom stay at home at the weekend.
At weekend we go to the sports club.
At the weekend we go to the sports club.
During the weekend we usually go to a Chinese restaurant.
At the weekend we usually go to a Chinese restaurant.
See Language Note at TIME
During this weekend there is a squash tournament.
This weekend there is a squash tournament.
See Language Note at TIME
1220
welcome
You can bring as many friends to the party as you like. Everyone is welcomed.
You can bring as many friends to the party as you like. Everyone is welcome.
welcome (verb) = greet a guest or visitor in a friendly way when they arrive: ‘Her Royal Highness
was welcomed at the airport by a party of Cabinet Ministers.’
If you are pleased when someone comes to stay at your house or comes to your party, they are welcome (adjective), (WITHOUT d): ‘You’re always welcome to stay here, you know.’ ‘Aunt Edna always makes us feel welcome.’
1221
well
Everything was well until somebody came and sat in the seat next to mine.
Everything was fine until somebody came and sat in the seat next to mine.
His table manners were not very well.
His table manners were not very good.
Well is usually used as an adverb: ‘The team played well on Saturday.’ As an adjective, well usually means ‘in good health’: ‘George can’t come because he’s not very well.’ ‘He always looks well after a holiday.’
1222
wet
It started pouring with rain and we all got completely wet.
It started pouring with rain and we all got soaked.
soaked or soaking wet = extremely wet: ‘Don’t leave the cushions in the garden. If it rains, they’ll get soaking wet.’
1223
what
A woman can do everything what a man can do.
A woman can do everything (that) a man can do.
I’ll do all what I can to help you.
I’ll do all (that) I can to help you.
What is not used as a relative pronoun. After all, everything, anything etc, use that or nothing: ‘You can have anything (that) you like.’ ‘I have everything (that) I need for the time being.’
She told him that she didn’t want to marry him, what in my opinion was very silly of her.
She told him that she didn’t want to marry him, which in my opinion was very silly of her.
What is not used as a relative pronoun. When you comment on a previous statement, use which: ‘Lizzie ate the whole box of chocolates, which was very greedy.’
Please tell me what would you like for a wedding present.
Please tell me what you would like for a wedding present.
When a wh- clause is part of a sentence (e.g. the subject or the object), the subject and verb in the wh- clause do not change places. Compare: ‘Why did she leave so soon?’ ‘Do you know why she left so soon?’
1224
when
When hearing that the child had been found, she burst into tears.
On hearing that the child had been found, she burst into tears.
To show that two things happen at the same time or that one thing happens immediately after the other, use on/upon doing sth (NOT when): ‘On examining the suitcase, he noticed that the locks had been tampered with.’
When I’ll return home, I’ll look for a better job.
When I return home, I’ll look for a better job.
See Language Note at WILL
I don’t know when is she coming.
I don’t know when she is coming.
See Note at WHAT 3
1225
whenever
Whenever you’ll hear about this place, you’ll want to come back.
Whenever you hear about this place, you’ll want to come back.
See Language Note at WILL
1226
where
He wanted to get to Paris, where his uncle lived there.
He wanted to get to Paris, where his uncle lived.
When where is used to begin a relative clause, it is not followed by there. Compare: ‘Every weekend she drives down to London. Her parents live there.’ ‘Every weekend she drives down to London, where her parents live.’
The box where she kept her jewellery in had disappeared.
The box where she kept her jewellery had disappeared.
When where begins a relative clause, it is not followed by in, at, for, etc: ‘We went to see the house where Shakespeare lived.’ Compare: ‘The box that/which she kept her jewellery in had disappeared.’
1227
which
Students which fail the exam have to take the course again.
Students who/that fail the exam have to take the course again.
Which is used to refer to things (NOT people): ‘I like music which/that helps me to relax.’
1228
while
The Japanese have a tendency to keep silent while meetings.
The Japanese have a tendency to keep silent during meetings.
While (conjunction) introduces a clause: ‘While we were on holiday, we did a lot of walking.’ During (preposition) introduces a noun phrase: ‘During the holiday we did a lot of walking.’
While I drove to the airport, my car broke down.
While I was driving to the airport, my car broke down.
To refer to a ‘background action’, use the past progressive tense (was /were doing): ‘While I was having a bath, the telephone rang.’
Who will look after the children while you will be at work?
Who will look after the children while you are at work?
See Language Note at WILL
As a whole, I am very happy here.
On the whole, I am very happy here.
as a whole = considered as a single body or unit: The country as a whole is not ready for another election.’ on the whole = generally speaking: ‘On the whole, I can see no reason why you shouldn’t apply.’
1229
whom
Most of the people whom I met were very kind.
Most of the people (that) I met were very kind.
Whom is used only in formal styles: Those applicants whom the selection committee recommends
for interview should be contacted without delay.’ The police officer to whom the crime was first reported has been transferred to another unit.’ In non-formal styles, use that/who or nothing: The man (that) she intends to marry comes from Stockport.’ ‘The girl (that) you were speaking to is a friend of mine.’ In non-identifying clauses, however, only who is possible: ‘Both girls - who you may remember from Helen’s party -have got places at Oxford.’
She is one of the few people whom I think might be good at the job.
She is one of the few people who/that I think might be good at the job.
When you need a subject relative pronoun, use who/that (NOT Whom): ‘He was the one who/that came to meet me at the station.’
1230
wide
My education has given me a wide view of life.
My education has given me a broad view of life.
The magazine gives wide descriptions of market trends.
The magazine gives broad descriptions of market trends.
broad view/picture/description/outline (of sth), NOT wide: ‘Can you give me a broad outline of what the speech was about?’
1231
will
When capital punishment was abolished, people thought that murders will become more numerous.
When capital punishment was abolished, people thought that murders would become more numerous.
A reporting verb in the past tense (e.g. ‘thought’) is usually followed by would/could (NOT will/can). Compare: ‘I think she will accept any job that comes along.’ ‘I thought she would accept any job that came along.’
If a developing country will become a developed country, it has to attract foreign investors.
If a developing country is to become a developed country, it has to attract foreign investors.
When you are talking about what must happen in order to make something possible, use if ... am/is/are to do sth (NOT will): ‘If we are to get there by six o’clock, we’ll have to get a taxi.’ See Language Note below
1232
win
We have never won the American team.
We have never beaten the American team.
win a game, match, race, competition, election, etc: ‘United have won four of their last five matches.’ ‘Who won the FA Cup last year?’ beat a person, team or group (in a game, match, race, competition, election etc): ‘They’re a good side but I’m sure we can beat them.’ ‘
1233
wish
I wish you have a wonderful holiday.
I hope you have a wonderful holiday.
I wish you will enjoy your stay here.
I hope you will enjoy your stay here.
Use wish that (+ past/past perfect tense) for things that cannot happen or will probably not happen: ‘I wish I hadn’t told them my address.’ ‘I wish you could stay here longer.’ (= this will probably not happen) Use hope that (+ present/present perfect tense) for things that may easily happen or may easily have happened: ‘I hope you’ve had a successful trip.’ ‘We hope you all have a very merry Christmas.’ When wish is used for this meaning, the object is a noun phrase (NOT a that clause): ‘I wish you a safe journey.’ ‘We’d like to wish you all a very merry Christmas.’
I wish to send you a wedding present.
I’d like to send you a wedding present.
I wish to stay until the end of July but I can’t.
I’d like to stay until the end of July but I can’t.
When you tell someone what you want (to do), or ask someone what they want (to do), use would
like or (especially in informal styles) want: ‘I’d like to buy a few postcards.’ ‘What would you like to do tonight?’ Wish is used with this meaning only in formal styles: ‘We wish to apologize for the late arrival of this train.’
I wish that they will stop killing each other.
I wish that they would stop killing each other.
He wishes he can drive a car; taxis are so expensive.
He wishes he could drive a car; taxis are so expensive.
When you are thinking about the present or the future, use wish (that) +would /could/had etc. (NOT will/can/have etc.) ‘I wish I knew his telephone number.’ ‘I wish I didn’t have to go to school tomorrow.’
1234
with
I finally opened the can with using a screwdriver.
I finally opened the can by using a screwdriver.
To explain ‘how’ something is achieved, use by doing sth (NOT with): ‘The thieves got into the
house by climbing through the kitchen window.’
Compare: ‘I finally opened the can with a screwdriver.’
1235
within
She is getting married within a few hours and she feels a bit nervous.
She is getting married in a few hours and she feels a bit nervous.
My examinations are within two weeks’ time.
My examinations are in two weeks’ time.
within = before the end of the stated period: ‘The parcel should be arriving within the next five
days.’ ‘Within six years of joining the company he was Managing Director.’
in = at the end of the stated period: ‘The doctor wants to see me again in a week’s time.’ ‘Don’t go
away. I’ll be back in a few minutes.’
1236
wood
The coat has a leather belt and three brown wood buttons.
The coat has a leather belt and three brown wooden buttons.
The adjective meaning ‘made of wood’ is usually wooden (NOT wood): ‘Stir the mixture gently with a wooden spoon.’
1237
work
Without a full-time work, some people think it’s not worth living.
Without a full-time job, some people think it’s not worth living.
Without full-time work, some people think it’s not worth living.
I’ve come to England to do a research work in civil engineering.
I’ve come to England to do research work in civil engineering.
See Language Note at OCCUPATION
I got up and got ready to go to my work.
I got up and got ready to go to work.
See Language Note at OCCUPATION
These days a lot of women go to work outside.
These days a lot of women go out to work.
My wife goes to work outside the house.
My wife goes out to work.
See Language Note at OCCUPATION
I would like to work at an international organization.
I would like to work for an international organization.
My mother works in a large insurance company.
My mother works for a large insurance company.
See Language Note at OCCUPATION
1238
world
Nepal has one of the highest mountains in all over the world.
Nepal has one of the highest mountains in the world.
The sewing machine is one of the most widely used products of the world.
The sewing machine is one of the most widely used products in the world.
superlative + noun + in the world: ‘At that time China was the richest and most powerful country in the world.’
Pollution is a serious problem in all of the world.
Pollution is a serious problem all over the world.
Their music is played in every part of the world.
Their music is played all over the world.
all over the world = everywhere in the world: ‘Since joining the newspaper, she’s travelled all over the world.’ ‘There will be teams from all over the world.’
1239
worse
It was the worse journey I had ever made.
It was the worst journey. I had ever made.
People’s lack of responsibility makes the problem even more worse.
People’s lack of responsibility makes the problem even worse.
bad, worse, (the) worst: ‘The medicine just made me feel worse.’ ‘It’s the worst film I’ve ever seen.’
1240
worst
The next time I saw her she looked even worst.
The next time I saw her she looked even worse.
The day finished worst than it began.
The day finished worse than it began.
See Note at WORSE
1241
worth
The ring has great sentimental worth.
The ring has great sentimental value.
They do not appreciate the worth of life.
They do not appreciate the value of life.
Worth is usually used as a preposition: ‘A four-bed roomed house in the middle of town is probably worth about £200,000.’
The noun related to worth is value: ‘The current value of property is very low compared with this time last year.’
Compare: ‘That watch is worth fifty pounds.’ ‘That watch has a value of fifty pounds.’
The missing ring worths about two thousand pounds.
The missing ring is worth about two thousand pounds.
A holiday doesn’t worth all the effort it takes preparing for it.
A holiday isn’t worth all the effort it takes preparing for it.
be worth £20lvery little/a fortune etc: ‘These old computers aren’t worth much nowadays.’
It’s also worth to visit the north of England if you have time.
It’s also worth visiting the north of England if you have time.
The museum was certainly worth to see.
The museum was certainly worth seeing.
it’s worth doing sth; sth is worth doing (NOT to do): ‘It’s worth remembering that these old cars can be very expensive to run.’
1242
worthwhile
The film reviews are always worthwhile looking at.
The film reviews are always worth looking at.
it’s worth/worthwhile doing sth: ‘It might be worth having one or two copies made.’ ‘Is-it worthwhile talking about it now, or shall we leave it until our next meeting?’ sth is worth doing (NOT worthwhile): ‘Some of these so-called professional teams aren’t worth watching.’ Compare: ‘Was the long drive up to Scotland really worthwhile?’
1243
worthy
It’s not worthy taking your own car.
It’s not worth taking your own car.
The cathedral is certainly worthy to be visited.
The cathedral is certainly worth visiting.
it’s worth doing sth; sth is worth doing (NOT worthy): ‘Do you think it’s worth having the engine tuned?’ ‘The letter isn’t worth worrying about.’
1244
would
If I would live in the countryside, I would be much healthier.
If I lived in the countryside, I would be much healthier.
When you are talking about the present or the future and you imagine something that is untrue or unlikely, use the past tense (‘lived’) in the if clause (NOT would): ‘If I knew her address, I’d send her a postcard.’ ‘If I won a lot of money, I’d buy a new car.’
If you would have caught the earlier train, we could have travelled together.
If you had caught the earlier train, we could have travelled together.
When you are talking about the past and you imagine something that is impossible, use the past perfect tense (‘had caught’) in the if clause (NOT would have): ‘If he hadn’t got on the plane, he would still be alive.’
If you would have any more questions, I’ll do my best to answer them.
If you should have any more questions, I’ll do my best to answer them.
When you are talking about the present or the future and you imagine something that is possible but unlikely, use if ... should (NOT if … would): ‘If anyone should need me, I’ll be back in half an hour.’
1245
wound
Only the driver was wounded in the accident.
Only the driver was injured/hurt in the accident.
See Note at DAMAGE 1
1246
wrapping
Manufacturers should dispense with all unnecessary wrapping.
Manufacturers should dispense with all unnecessary packaging.
wrapping (also wrappings) = paper or paper-like material that is put round something: ‘I wanted to tear off the wrapping and see what was inside.’ packaging = the container or material that something is placed in by a manufacturer, especially to protect it or make it look attractive: ‘Packaging should be biodegradable and kept to a minimum.’ Note that both wrapping and packaging are used in connection with food: ‘Somewhere on the packaging/wrapping there should be a date stamp.’
1247
write
I’d like to apologize for not having written you before.
I’d like to apologize for not having written to you before.
In British English you write to a person or place (WITH to): ‘Wingate wrote to his father, asking for
more money.’ In American English to is optional: ‘I’ll write (to) you and give you all the latest news.’
Dear... I write to you to ask for your advice.
Dear... I am writing to you to ask for your advice.
For actions which are happening at the time when they are mentioned, use the present progressive tense (NOT the present simple): ‘I’m writing to tell you that I’ll be coming to London next Thursday.’
1248
wrong
The belief that Spanish is easy to learn is wrong.
The belief that Spanish is easy to learn is mistaken.
To describe a belief or idea that is wrong although people do not know it is wrong, use mistaken: ‘Some people have the mistaken idea that cats need to drink milk.’ ‘I’m afraid you must be mistaken.’
1249
year
I’ve been playing the piano since I was seven years.
I’ve been playing the piano since I was seven.
I’ve been playing the piano since I was seven years old.
I’ve been playing the piano since I was seven years of age.
When stating someone’s age, use just a number on its own OR a number + years old/years of age (NOT years): ‘I’m almost eighteen.’ ‘My sister is fifteen years old.’
Robert was a little boy of ten years.
Robert was a little boy of ten.
a boy/girl/son etc + of + number (WITHOUT years): ‘a child of six’, ‘a man of fifty’
1250
yearly
See OLD 1,2
See Language Note at TIME
See RECENT
More houses are built yearly.
More houses are built every year.
Thousands of people die from cancer yearly.
Thousands of people die from cancer every year.
Yearly usually means that something is done or takes place once a year: ‘The interest is paid
yearly or, if you prefer, every six months.’ ‘The front of the house was getting its yearly coat of
white paint.’
Yearly is also used to connect a total number or amount with a period of one year: ‘We were manufacturing and selling about 20,000 tonnes yearly.’ ‘The yearly catch rose to a peak of 52,000 tonnes.’ When you simply want to say that something happens ‘all the time’, use every year or
each year (NOT yearly): ‘The country’s tourist industry is growing every year.’
1251
yet
He left the house at five in the morning, when the family was yet asleep.
He left the house at five in the morning, when the family was still asleep.
I’ve only been here two weeks and everything is strange yet.
I’ve only been here two weeks and everything is still strange.
Yet means ‘up to the moment of speaking’ and is used mainly in question and negative sentences:
‘Do you feel any better yet?’ ‘The post office isn’t open yet.’
When you want to say that an earlier state or situation has not changed, use still: ‘I’ve taken the
medicine but I still feel terrible.’ ‘Does Hilary still go to the same school?’
I didn’t finish my thesis yet.
I haven’t finished my thesis yet.
Yet (= up to the moment of speaking) is usually used with the present or present perfect tense (NOT the past tense): ‘Has the taxi arrived yet?’ ‘Is the taxi here yet?’
1252
yours
Dear Mary Yours faithfully...
Dear Mary Yours/With love/With best wishes...
Dear John, Yours sincerely...
Dear John, Yours/With love/With best wishes...
Yours faithfully and Yours sincerely are used only in formal letters. At the end of a letter to a friend or relative, use Yours, With love, With best wishes, etc.
Dear Sir, Yours,
Dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
When a formal letter begins with Dear Sir or Dear Madam, it usually ends with Yours faithfully.
