I hope you all have an enjoyable stay.
My husband is doing an MSc in civil engineering.
Sometimes it is difficult to live an honest life.
The child had been deaf since birth.
One of the girls I share with is British.
Since capital punishment was abolished, the crime rate has increased.
It is difficult to reach remote places such as small country villages.
I want to improve my ability in English.
In some countries you can’t drink until you are 21.
I am always delighted when I receive a letter from you. With regard to the party on December 26th, I shall be very pleased to attend.
People usually sleep with the doors and windows closed. As for public transport, the bus and train services are excellent.
I was about to leave when the telephone rang.
There were over a hundred people in the crowd.
What do you think of my/this suggestion?
Since I was small, I’ve always wanted to go abroad.
I would like to continue my studies abroad.
It’s a pity that you missed the training session.
It’s a pity that you weren’t at the training session.
It is very important that you see a doctor immediately.
It is absolutely essential that you see a doctor immediately.
The company will not agree to buy new machines.
The driver did not allow me to get on the bus.
We can’t allow a motorway to be built through our town.
Her car was involved in a serious accident.
Could you help me look for accommodation?
To achieve world unity, we need peace.
A balanced diet is achieved by eating many different kinds of food.
We also have to take into account the fact that the schools are overcrowded.
I cannot give you the exact date of my arrival yet.
I am interested in the way people behave towards each other.
He refused to accept responsibility for his actions.
The things that we do everyday are made easier by computers.
It is difficult to forgive those responsible for acts of terrorism.
Few people are aware that urgent action is needed.
The government should take action to reduce the birth rate.
My present job involves a lot of administration.
I never get bored by this city. In fact, each time I return I find something new to interest me.
We need to produce and export more than we do at present.
The other ingredients are then added to the mixture.
One hour is not long enough to see all the exhibits.
I enjoyed looking at all the old buildings.
Although it was a sad film, I enjoyed it very much.
Everybody enjoyed your talk because it was lively and interesting.
I like/enjoy/love meeting new people.
I like/enjoy/love reading too.
Although the film has its merits/good points, it also has a serious flaw.
Television provides many benefits.
What are the advantages of studying in the United States?
There are many advantages to/in having your own computer.
I have just seen your advertisement for a Chinese cook.
I am writing in reply to your advertisement for a part-time sales assistant.
I advised him to tell the police.
She gave me some good advice.
It is full of good advice on healthy eating.
I asked my lawyer for her advice.
Nowadays many doctors advise living in the countryside.
Nowadays many doctors advise people to live in the countryside.
The programme is about computers and their effect on our lives.
This problem has also affected the automobile industry.
My father couldn’t afford to pay for my education.
I promised to meet Hitomi at the exhibition a week later.
Since 1961 the consumption of cheese has increased each year.
My first aim is to get a master’s degree. Afterwards, I would like to go and work in Canada.
A police car arrived within minutes and soon afterwards an ambulance came.
A police car arrived within minutes and soon afterwards an ambulance came.
School finishes at five in the afternoon.
In the afternoon I met them at the hotel and we went to the beach.
We started going out together just to have fun, as friends. Later on we both realized that there was more than just friendship.
It’s time I gave you your photographs back.
He’d like to have his bicycle back if you’ve finished with it.
I’ll phone you back in five minutes.
Trying to avoid the sheep, he drove his car into a tree.
Although we are the same age, we have different interests.
At the age of 15, you are allowed to drive a car.
A child of seven or eight needs a little push.
People of my age spend a lot of time in pubs.
Not all elderly parents have children to look after them.
I applied for a job at a travel agent’s.
The accident happened ten years ago.
I came to England two years ago.
He went to Sydney five years ago.
I started learning English two years ago.
I’m writing in reply to your letter that I received two days ago.
The train left at exactly 3 o’clock. Just five minutes before I had been stuck in a traffic jam.
I don’t agree with the people who say women should stay at home.
In many ways I agree with his statement.
I don’t understand why he doesn’t agree to the divorce.
Conservationists will never agree to the building of the motorway.
I agree that archaeological treasures should be protected.
In some ways I agree with those who want stricter punishments.
The country’s economy is based on agriculture.
We must begin to help ourselves and not wait for other countries.
Education can help us to understand our world.
They can learn faster with the aid of computers.
Her lifelong ambition was to learn how to fly.
He was aiming a gun at me.
These programmes are aimed at a very wide audience.
It’s hard to find any fresh air nowadays.
All the aircraft have to be checked and refuelled.
Finally we got really worried and alerted the local police.
Every living creature in the sea is affected by pollution.
Our teacher, Mr Collins, is very lively.
My reason for living had disappeared.
People envy her because she is good at everything.
Nobody understands everything.
We must all try to find a solution to the problem.
We were all delighted when we heard the news.
As you all know, my name is Mary Smith.
I’ve never forgotten how beautiful it all was.
I like all kinds of music.
All children learn to speak naturally.
I didn’t like the meal and couldn’t eat it all.
They also allow the prisoners to keep birds.
I have almost forgotten what she looks like.
The suitcase was almost too heavy to lift.
My job takes me to almost every part of the world.
I was very lonely at first but then I made some friends.
Children learn a lot by doing things on their own.
Walking through the city after dark is not a good idea.
Next July I’m going back to Hong Kong. I’ve booked the tickets already.
Most of the food is already cold when you get it.
They already had ten children and didn’t want any more.
They had ten children already and didn’t want any more.
The war is not over yet.
The new shop has not been opened yet.
We would also like to be given more fresh food.
The school also has a gymnasium.
Besides the nature society, there is also a music society.
I don’t like your climate and I don’t like English food either.
We decided to make alternative arrangements in case the hotel was fully booked.
In Sweden many wives and husbands stay at home alternately to look after their children.
He died a long time ago, but his ideas are still alive.
I always have the feeling that she enjoys teaching us.
You will always be welcome.
During the winter months, they were always in the kitchen.
My immediate aim is to find somewhere to live.
Not many people manage to achieve their ambitions.
Try to avoid arousing anger and fear in the children.
He is very popular with the people of Japan.
The number of accidents is steadily increasing.
Only small numbers of students will be admitted.
I was lucky and won a large amount of money.
Cream cheese contains a large amount of fat.
The amount of crime has increased.
A tremendous amount of research has been carried out.
The kitchen is very spacious and has a window overlooking the garden.
The last three years have been the most enjoyable years of my life.
Most visitors find the museum extremely interesting.
I had never visited a hospital before.
There is a beautiful old church in the centre of the town.
I was surprised and angry that he did not apologize.
He’ll have to learn how to control his temper.
On almost every page there were advertisements for cigarettes and tobacco.
The noise of the traffic outside all day irritates me.
I feel rather irritated when I see the same advertisement time and time again.
Some people are disturbed by these violent films.
She was annoyed that I hadn’t waited for her.
I felt terribly annoyed at his lack of sensitivity.
Rio has other important sights such as the famous football stadium.
He gave the class some more homework.
I hate horror films. Let’s watch something else.
If Henry is busy, get someone else to help you.
Can’t you use someone else’s computer?
There is another point that is worth mentioning.
Another way to lose weight is to eat less.
Without a car, it takes a long time to get from one place to another.
They still can’t find an answer to this problem.
It has taken them almost two months to answer my letter.
I couldn’t answer the last two questions.
My job involves cooking, cleaning and answering the door bell.
There is a beautiful old church in the centre of the town.
I always feel nervous when I have to make a speech.
She is worried that the hotel rates will be too expensive.
I was worried that somebody would see us through the window.
He obviously isn’t worried about public opinion.
Each day was the same.
All parents are thrilled when their first baby arrives.
If you have any questions, ask your teacher.
She doesn’t have any friends.
Has Atsuko found a job yet?
If there is a hole in the balloon, the air will escape.
Everyone should speak not just one but several languages.
Everybody else in the class speaks Japanese.
Please ask your staff if any of them has seen my purse.
He doesn’t know any of them, but he doesn’t care.
Anyone is welcome to join us.
If anybody wants one, please write your name on the board.
Unfortunately, the beach is not white and sandy. On the other hand, it is seldom crowded and we can enjoy the sea.
I’m sorry that I won’t be able to attend your wedding. Nevertheless, I would like to give you something for your new home.
This is a serious problem for teachers everywhere.
Computers will be everywhere we go.
When it snows, it is difficult to go anywhere.
The waiter was made to apologize to my father.
He apologized to her for the long delay.
She insisted on apologizing for her husband’s behaviour.
I apologize for not being able to come to the wedding.
Unemployment occurs in nearly all developed countries.
Unfortunately, another problem has occurred.
If he were alive, he would appear in a lot of good films.
Recently she has appeared in several TV commercials.
There appears to be a haphazard attitude among the younger generation.
I’ve applied for a one-year course in computer studies.
I don’t have enough experience to apply for the job.
The new tax law applies only to people with large incomes.
I don’t like magazines or newspapers that have been censored.
I would greatly appreciate it if you could send me Ray’s address.
He approached my table and took a seat opposite me.
The third paragraph of the essay is not relevant.
Will you please send me all the relevant information?
Some bottles are not suitable for recycling.
She is clearly the most suitable person for the job.
Some husbands do not approve of the idea of their wives having a job.
The party should end at around midnight.
The train fare is roughly £20.
A number of different countries and regions face the same problem.
In the first class after lunch we usually have a discussion.
There are several good reasons for people preferring to live in the countryside.
They don’t want children, for purely personal reasons.
These problems have arisen as a result of overpopulation.
She comes to see me three times a week for help with her arithmetic.
The plan to reduce the armed forces is strongly opposed.
She wouldn’t stop crying until I held her in my arms.
I shall never forget the day he died in my arms.
She was sitting in her favourite armchair.
On his arrival in Vienna, he was surprised not to find his friend.
The Pope's arrival in the Philippines caused a lot of excitement.
You’ll arrive in London at two in the morning.
When the train arrived in Munich, he was still asleep.
She arrived at the station just in time to catch the train.
We arrived at the hotel in time for dinner.
The college offers both science and arts subjects.
I worked as a tutor in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences.
There are two man-made lakes - one for swimming and one for fishing.
The city has suffered both natural and man-made disasters.
He managed to lose weight by eating synthetic diet foods.
I am worried about taking synthetic products into the body.
The country’s art treasures should be left where they are.
Students coming from art schools can join the Academy of Arts.
His skin is not like the skin of a young man.
It looked very fragile and so I handled it like china.
She looked at everyone as if she were their superior.
As our room was upstairs, we didn’t hear him.
I’ll go with you as long as I don’t have to sing.
We have to ask ourselves whether such films should be censored.
She asked me to tell her a story.
They asked him what he would like to do.
From a biological point of view, the two plants are very similar.
At one time it seemed as if men were stronger than women in every respect.
He was charged with murdering a taxi-driver.
The prison is full of crooks, thieves and murderers.
All members are required to attend the meeting.
One of the prison guards assisted them in their escape.
Ask Susie to help you.
I can assure you that your name will not be mentioned.
I assure you that the meeting will not last very long.
Hospices are typically seen as places where people go to die.
I always have a good breakfast in the morning.
In Germany we have a lot of snow in wintertime.
I was married in 1989 and have two children, a boy and a girl.
I bought the tape just a week ago, on 4th December.
We were all very tired on the last day of our journey.
A lot of athletics reporters write for the magazine.
The race was organized by the National Athletics Association.
It’s very important to attend all the classes.
I won’t be able to attend the meeting.
People should pay more attention to what they eat.
When driving, you must give your full attention to what you are doing.
The service is a bit slow, but the waiters are always polite.
For the attention of: Mrs H. Greaves, Principal.
The priest stands in front of the bride and groom, facing the congregation.
Those who bend the rules are reported to the authorities.
The authorities had refused them even their basic civil rights.
The average number of hours spent watching television has increased.
These new measures are intended to prevent the spread of the disease.
He is such a nice man that you can’t help liking him.
I couldn’t help falling in love with her.
I avoid using a computer for personal letters.
We await your reply and apologize for any inconvenience.
The next morning we woke up at 7 o’clock to catch the train.
Sitting in the next seat was a young woman who was expecting a baby.
I’m afraid I speak English very badly.
It’s unfortunate that the population is increasing so quickly.
All the passengers carried their own baggage.
Although I am a member of the club, I rarely go there.
Political stability provides the basis for economic development.
The course is for students with a basic knowledge of English.
I always have a bath before going to bed.
Many young Americans refused to fight in Vietnam.
Meanwhile, Sarah was beginning to get upset.
When she didn’t arrive, I started to become anxious.
After six months he became the general manager.
Nowadays it is very difficult to get a job.
On Saturdays there is usually a party at someone’s house.
The government also controls the number of children that a couple can have.
I want to get married and have children.
I can’t bear it any longer,’ he said. ‘I’m ready to resign.’
I can’t bear it if someone starts cracking their knuckles.
Thank you for your interesting/newsy letter.
Eventually I came to like Singapore.
When my first child was born, I began to think seriously about my future.
The housing problem in Hong Kong is becoming more serious.
Every morning I have to get up very early.
I got up at 8 a.m. and had a shower.
I hadn’t been to Scotland before.
Have you ever been to California?
Not so long ago we used animals for transportation.
My parents first came here 40 years ago.
At the beginning of the century people travelled from Britain to Egypt by sea.
The magazine teaches parents how to behave towards their children.
We were surprised by their peculiar behaviour.
Such behaviour can easily cause offence.
At night I keep my wallet under my pillow.
You should not believe everything you hear.
She couldn’t believe what was happening to her.
I could hardly believe my eyes.
I firmly believe that tourists will stop coming here.
My brother strongly believes in freedom of speech.
The Toyota belongs to my wife.
Patreze belongs to the Williams team.
He spends as much time as he can with his children.
Under the table there were some empty wine bottles.
The report below describes my recent stay at the Hotel Grove.
The room rates are far below average for hotels in this area.
This new service should benefit all our customers.
The trade agreement will benefit both parties.
We need to discover another source of income, besides oil.
We went swimming in the river beside my house.
Besides this problem, her husband had lost his job.
Apart from the goalkeeper, who was a disaster, the team played very well.
He is the best surgeon in the hospital.
It is one of the best theatres in Spain.
We all did our best to see that they enjoyed themselves.
German cars are more expensive but they are better.
You’d better make sure you’re not late again.
My friends warned me that I had better be careful.
If people want to be healthy, they should be more careful about what they eat.
Among all the magazines on the shelves, only one was of any interest.
He wandered silently among the passengers on the boat.
Children between three and five go to kindergarten.
From June 1987 to March 1990 I was in France.
It will take them between six and eight weeks to finish it.
I enjoy cycling and playing badminton.
In the evenings we usually go cycling.
The party was great fun and we all enjoyed ourselves.
There is a strong possibility that they may not come.
The instructions were a little confusing.
My diet is slightly different nowadays.
Thank you very much for giving us a little of your free time.
I watched a little television and went to bed.
He is a bit/little too short to be a policeman.
He is slightly too short to be a policeman.
The speech was a bit/little too formal.
The speech was slightly too formal.
I wasn’t even there so you can’t blame me.
I wasn’t even there so you can’t blame it on me.
Who is to be blamed for this?
Some people go blind with the disease.
Usually he just turns a blind eye and lets them carry on.
Within a week, I found myself on board an aeroplane.
His body was flown back home for burial.
I’m afraid that we’re out of stock but I can order one for you.
My job at the bank was very boring.
I don’t think I’ll ever get bored with the book.
She soon got bored with talking to him.
We get very bored with the same food every day.
You’ll be bored with nothing to do.
My name is Ali Shariat and I was born in Tehran.
I was born in a town just outside Paris.
He was born into a Catholic family.
I asked my friend to lend me some money.
He lent me some of his books.
My father is the manager of a small shipping company.
Anne and John are both scientists.
The country shares borders with Ruanda and Burundi.
He’s gone to buy some fresh bread.
The family broke up just after he was born.
The police had to break down the door to get in.
After breakfast, we went shopping.
Before breakfast I usually go for a run.
Before I have (my) breakfast, I usually make my bed.
Every morning my first job is to prepare (the) breakfast.
There wasn’t enough time to have breakfast.
While I am having breakfast, I listen to the radio.
She had a very bad cold and couldn’t breathe properly.
Would you like me to take you home?
Whenever I go sightseeing, I take my camera with me.
I went back into the house to fetch my sunglasses.
Global warming is bringing about changes in the weather.
Nuclear power could bring about the destruction of our planet.
Our tourist industry brings in a lot of foreign exchange.
I would prefer to study in America or Britain.
I am learning English at the British Council.
I am a student at the British Council.
The car could not stop because its brakes were not working.
The best way to see London is to get on a bus.
She said I was on the wrong bus.
I often have to go abroad on business.
My father is now in Paris on business.
I was busy cooking the dinner.
Although I enjoyed my stay in the USA, I was still glad to come home.
I enjoyed my stay in the USA, but I was still glad to come home.
He managed to open the lid with a screwdriver.
I am staying in a small town near Oxford.
We can gain a lot of knowledge from these books.
Being locked up is a punishment in itself.
Money in itself is of no interest to me.
Last night I tried to call my father back home in Turkey.
Please call 945 8026.
If you receive this note, please call/ring me.
If you receive this note, please give me a call/ring.
Please call me on 0248 312689.
Koreans call this room ‘anbang’.
This process is called nitrogen fixation.
If you prefer a peaceful environment, try the countryside.
Go and find somewhere quiet and get some rest.
What you need is a quiet and relaxing holiday somewhere.
You need peace and quiet to digest your lunch properly.
My best friend Nick is very easygoing and never gets upset.
Shotaro Akiyama is a famous Japanese photographer.
Could you possibly send me an application form?
I’d be grateful if you could confirm whether you are coming.
The next generation will be able to fly to the moon for their holidays.
The meeting has been postponed until next Thursday.
Her husband died 10 years ago of lung cancer.
This type of job requires special skills.
I wish to improve my speaking and listening skills.
The atomic bomb has given man the capacity for self-destruction.
Her blue eyes and long blond hair captivated him.
I got into the car and turned on the engine.
She got out of the car and apologized.
He brought me back to Cambridge in his car.
We went to the party in a friend’s car.
These children need special care and attention.
My host family took good care of me.
The only thing they cared about was how to make money.
It encourages readers to care about what they buy.
Some criminals simply don’t care about being caught.
They don’t care about religion.
Some women stay at home to take care of the children.
The government must take care of the teachers.
Who will take care of the shop?
I’d like to be a doctor or something related to that profession.
How wonderful it would be to be young and carefree again!
An ambulance arrived and the man was taken to hospital.
He said he would take me home and told me to get in the car.
Switzerland has very little unemployment and in this respect we are very lucky.
If a woman goes out to work, she shouldn’t have to do all the housework.
I prefer to pay in cash.
I prefer to pay cash.
The purse contained about $200 in cash.
The dialogue in this video is very difficult to understand.
At that time I couldn’t speak or understand English at all.
The reason why I want to change my job is as follows.
For this reason the journey took a long time.
The police wanted to know the cause of the accident.
Smoking is one of the major causes of lung cancer.
Just suppose, for some reason, that there was suddenly a shortage of oil.
Every creature must have some way of protecting itself.
Under certain circumstances, such as war, food has to be rationed.
Are you sure that you definitely don’t want to go?
If they definitely can’t find a job, they should be given further training.
I certainly think so.
The other day I was given a gift voucher, but it was only worth two thousand yen.
We can reduce the unemployment rate with a change in the economy.
I’m disappointed by all the changes in London.
I took the camera back to the shop and changed it for another one.
She has that rare characteristic - the ability to listen to people.
However, the Japanese also have a lot of good points.
The wages in Taiwan are very low.
The monthly payments were lower/less than I’d expected.
The train fare is very reasonable.
Once inside the airport, I made my way to the check-in.
I am enclosing a cheque for £49.
He gave me a cheque for £5.
In my new job I have to make a lot of important decisions.
Please will you let us know your decision by the end of the month.
If you prefer to see a film, we can go to the cinema instead.
I prefer the first story because it’s more exciting.
There are over forty different courses to choose from.
There is also a library where you can choose from a wide range of books.
Hilde chose sources of energy as her topic.
Not so long ago nearly everybody used to go to church.
We went to the cinema to see ‘Who framed Roger Rabbit?’
The story revolves around his career in the army.
Each country has its own culture and ideology.
American culture is very different from that of Japan.
The public are demanding stricter laws.
I prefer classical music to pop.
The local residents would like to clean up the neighbourhood.
I should like to make it clear that the accommodation is far from luxurious.
While I was driving to the airport, the weather was still wet and foggy.
Before going off in the boat, you should check the weather conditions.
They locked the man in a room until the police came.
I bought some cheap material to make some curtains.
He likes fast cars and expensive clothes.
None of the clothes shops had any pink socks.
The dancers were dressed in their national costume.
Don’t go out and buy any special clothes.
As soon as I arrived, I unpacked my clothes.
He had grown so much that his clothes didn’t fit him.
Those who work with pesticides are given protective clothing.
The police were grateful to the public for their co-operation.
By going to college or university, you become more mature.
The belt is the same colour as the coat.
I bought a blue shirt and a pair of socks.
The purse is made of leather and is a dark brown colour.
At Hari Raya we hang coloured lights around the house.
The cardigan is pink and is made of wool.
He showed me the colour photographs he had taken.
He was afraid of his father and didn’t want to go back home.
The students who come from Japan are hard-working.
For those who live by themselves, television provides good company.
The teachers will be able to visit our schools and compare our teaching methods with their own.
It is childish to complain about rules.
They are always complaining about something.
There have been several complaints about the service in the canteen.
Then the lights went out and we were very scared.
The committee is composed of six teachers and a student representative.
There is not enough understanding between our two countries.
The teachers are very kind and understanding.
The former Soviet Union comprised fifteen union republics.
I am concentrating on both speaking and writing.
A bus driver has to concentrate and should not speak to the passengers.
The teaching tends to concentrate on grammar.
I try to concentrate on one subject at a time.
I couldn’t concentrate as there was someone talking.
The first chapter is concerned with the disposal of nuclear waste.
Some dentists are more concerned with earning money than doing a good job.
With regard to your accommodation, there are several possibilities.
To conclude, I would like to say that everyone should read the book.
You should try to keep the car in good condition.
She has no confidence in what the future has to offer.
I feel quite confident about my English.
I began to feel more self-confident.
Could you please confirm whether you have received my order.
Almost every day we confront some new environmental problem.
Almost every day we are confronted with some new environmental problem.
First of all I’d like to congratulate you both on your wedding.
Congratulations! You must be feeling very proud.
Congratulations on your splendid examination results!
People today are more conscious of the importance of health care.
We’re considering visiting Switzerland next year.
You can contact me any evening after six.
The wallet contained about $25.
The cover page tells you about the magazine’s contents.
I didn’t find the content of the novel very interesting.
The canals join to form one continuous waterway.
A line of cars stretched continuously down the motorway.
I grew tired of his continual moaning.
The meeting was continually interrupted.
I’ve never been able to cook. My sister on the other hand can bake wonderful biscuits and cakes.
Oxfam and Save the Children have contributed a lot of money to the relief work.
I was surprised that nobody wanted to inspect my luggage.
After inspecting his fingerprints, the police arrested him.
At this stage in the process, every mould is inspected again.
These people want to control our lives.
These people want control over our lives.
My boat had gone out of control.
There was a loud bang and my car went out of control.
I had lost control and crashed into a tree.
He lost control of the car and hit a wall.
We all tried to persuade her to sing.
The coo/chef puts too much salt in the food.
I have written my address in the top right-hand corner.
I’d rather sit in the corner, near the door.
That shop is always empty because the prices are too high.
In London the cost of living is very high.
By reading quickly, I managed to finish the book before the library closed.
I’m taking an intermediate course in English.
The boys and girls on my English course come from all over the world.
The train couldn’t stop in time and crashed into the truck.
I lost control of the car and crashed into a palm tree.
We need to understand why people commit these crimes.
Somehow we must stop people from committing these crimes.
All the prisoners had committed serious crimes.
The crime rate among juveniles is still increasing.
What makes them choose a life of crime?
These decisions should not be based on purely financial criteria.
The article is highly critical of the government’s refugee policy.
The writer who made that criticism was unaware of the facts.
My criticism of this type of journalism is that it is totally irresponsible.
The children got very excited and began to scream.
Even when she is angry, she never shouts.
The year in Boston taught me a lot about American culture.
The wound took several weeks to heal.
I was the doctor who treated your head injury.
Those who are seriously ill take a long time to recover.
It was this film that first aroused my curiosity about Korean culture.
Several passers-by stopped to look at the strange bicycle out of curiosity.
I was curious to know what she would look like.
I’m very curious about the country and its inhabitants.
The modern world encourages creativity.
We need to know modern English, not the language of Shakespeare.
I went there hoping to learn something about Indian culture and customs.
He has a habit of coughing before he speaks.
It’s very difficult for people to change their habits.
Will I have to pay customs duty?
He cut up the strip of photographs and gave one to me.
I cut out the picture and stuck it on a sheet of paper.
To build the motorway, they will have to cut down a lot of trees.
The driver was very lucky and was only slightly hurt.
The fire caused a lot of damage.
The car crashed into a tree and suffered severe damage.
The floods did/caused a lot of damage.
Most of the damage has been caused by acid rain.
The bomb caused extensive damage to the surrounding buildings.
We all know about the damage that smoking can do to our health.
The summer in Japan is very hot and humid.
There were lots of young boys and girls dancing to pop music.
Then we danced to the music of ‘Grease’.
I daresay that the book is worth reading.
He is prepared to die rather than break his promise.
I didn’t enjoy the drink but I was ready to try it again.
His mother thinks that somebody must have dared him to steal the bicycle.
I daren’t ask her for any more money.
Soon it began to get dark and it was time to go home.
The last candle went out and everything went dark.
On the day of your wedding, I shall be in England.
I have to pay the rent on the first day of the month.
It was a fine autumn day.
It was a very long day for the children.
Some people watch television all day.
I’m afraid that I can’t come on that day.
On the first day, my sunglasses disappeared.
My travel agent had arranged a 6-day coach tour.
Day by day the world is becoming a better place.
Men and women have to work in overcrowded offices day after day.
These days many children have their own computer.
Nowadays we know more about the causes of pollution.
My father died when I was still a baby.
The doctor said that she died because the wound became infected.
Many countries have already signed the agreement.
We have to find a new way of dealing with crime.
I don’t have enough time to deal with all the questions.
Any products that are found to be defective will be replaced.
I have a Master’s degree in international journalism.
I have a degree in economics.
He is studying for a degree in computer science.
I’ve come here to do a Master’s degree in International Journalism.
When they knew that they had won, they were absolutely delighted.
I know that Dad will be delighted if you can come.
In my new job I am required to work overtime.
The demand for butter has decreased in recent years.
Many demonstrations have been held in recent years in protest against the level of pollution.
He asked his parents to help him, but they refused.
When she refused to wear the uniform, she was dismissed.
She asked him if he had seen a little boy but he said he hadn’t.
The next ferry will depart from the pier at 9.30 a.m.
The number of hours he worked depended on the number of absentees.
The insurance payment depends on the value of the goods.
Whether or not she passes depends upon how hard she works.
It depends on whether you’ve got enough money.
I’ll send you some English food and a description of how to prepare it.
I was miles from anywhere, stuck on a deserted country road.
Despite all my money, I wanted to live in an ordinary house.
I hope that world peace will continue forever.
My ambition is to become a successful business manager.
Although the train was empty, he came and sat in front of me.
Despite the train being empty, he came and sat in front of me.
Despite my qualifications, I couldn’t get a job.
This unpleasant man with his endless complaints spoilt my journey.
The water had been much too hot and most of the clothes were ruined.
With a zoom lens, I can study the image in detail.
People say she died of pneumonia.
Her husband had died two years earlier.
As soon as I arrived in the USA, I noticed a big difference in social behaviour.
London is different from/to Hong Kong.
Those who refused to join the army were put in prison.
She disagreed totally with what I said.
Some people disagree with the death penalty.
I don’t agree that heart transplants should be stopped.
I disagree with the statement.
The next morning, the snowman had disappeared.
Society discriminates against old people by denying them the chance to work.
Women have been discriminated against for far too long.
It is time that sexual discrimination against women was eliminated.
Some people were talking; some listening to the radio.
They’d like to discuss what to do next.
To get into the building, I’ll disguise myself as a reporter.
Dinner usually consists of three courses.
The main course was roast beef with fresh vegetables.
Some children have to prepare their own meals.
Dinner is the main meal of the day.
Jumble sales provide people with a good opportunity to dispose of all their unwanted goods.
We will be touring the famous fruit-growing regions.
The original inhabitants of the region/area were probably Chinese.
For lunch and dinner we were divided into groups of ten.
The university is divided into five different faculties.
If we were divorced, who would look after the children?
The fact that your wife crashed the Ferrari is not a good reason to divorce her.
For some reason, she didn’t want to divorce him.
Whenever I am in doubt about the meaning of a word, I look in my dictionary.
I doubt whether she is telling the truth.
She obviously doesn’t want the job.
There is no doubt that the rich have a great advantage.
No doubt you’re tired after your journey.
The recovery of the Mary Rose is, without doubt, a great scientific achievement.
I ran downstairs and picked up the telephone.
After the meal, we went to see a play at the Cambridge Theatre.
It took me half an hour to put on the kimono.
At work I have to wear a dark blue suit.
You should see the children’s faces when we dress up as clowns.
She was dressed in a white blouse and blue skirt.
The boy was drowning.
A man jumped into the river to save her from drowning.
The man was obviously drunk.
If I did the same thing every day, I would be bored.
It was such a boring job that I decided to leave.
After the accident, I had to stay in hospital for three months.
It is difficult to concentrate for such a long time.
My uncle has known me all my life.
The baby cried all night long.
While waiting for the train, I met an old friend of mine.
This was my biggest problem while I was living in the United States.
People eventually get ill from breathing in all the dust and smoke.
We had to answer each question on a new page.
Each of the nurses was very kind.
Each of us has a room on the top floor.
They each have their own problems.
He won a lot of money on the lottery.
The serious students never missed a class.
I have friends in different parts of the world.
We must all work together to protect the planet.
The aliens were fascinated by life on earth.
Mankind has lived on the earth for thousands of years.
Instead of having a proper meal, he just takes a few pills.
The main aim is to develop the country’s economy.
Travelling around Spain is easy and inexpensive.
The undeveloped countries need economic support.
My country has serious economic problems.
I have never seen the magazine before - I think it’s only just been published.
For the last three years I’ve been working for a French publishing company.
Education has changed my country a lot.
The goal is to provide free education for every girl and boy.
I thought that the long illness would affect my chances of passing the exam.
Many women stop smoking during pregnancy because of the effects on the baby.
British farmers receive only a little aid since their farms are relatively efficient.
We finally got to see the secretary who confirmed that there was indeed a young man being held in prison.
The medicine proved very effective.
The authorities have put a lot of effort into making the streets cleaner.
In my opinion, a holiday is a hopeless attempt to relax.
Little effort has been made to solve the problem.
Sometimes I have to make a great effort not to cry.
Either I shall go home to Brazil or my family will come to England.
We can go either by bus or by car.
The restaurant seems to be more popular with older people.
My sister is just two years older than me.
John, her elder son, is still at university.
Some people choose marriage partners who are totally unsuitable.
My father’s company imports electrical goods.
Our lives depend on electricity.
I studied electronics and computers for three years.
I work for an electronics company.
An electric razor is fine until there is a power cut.
She said that she hadn’t told anybody other than her husband.
Both philosophies emphasize the individual.
My previous teacher emphasized the importance of grammar.
In the end I decided not to go.
At the end of the dinner someone made a speech.
Finally, I would like to wish you all a very interesting and enjoyable stay.
The film ended at eight-thirty.
Since nobody would lend me the money, I ended up asking my father for it.
The trouble with smoking is that you end up making a habit of it.
Nowadays very few criminals end up in jail.
More than 160 million people suffer from malaria.
Some people cannot bear the idea of devoting themselves to children.
Our main energy source is nuclear power.
Simon gave me the ring when we got engaged.
Why did you get engaged to Paul if you don’t want to marry him?
I was amazed that such a small machine could hold so much information.
She’s going to get married to an Englishman.
I enjoy speaking foreign languages.
We assure you that we will do our best.
The number of foreign workers that are allowed to enter Japan has increased.
I got on the train in Oslo.
I boarded the train in Oslo.
Unfortunately, some of my classmates didn’t get into university.
The town offers all sorts of entertainment.
They were not satisfied with the new equipment.
It’s a useful piece of equipment and I intend to have it repaired.
The course has been specially designed for students preparing for the First Certificate examination.
In the south of Germany there is a different mentality. The Bavarians especially are very lively and cheerful.
Looking after children can be very tiring. Young children especially need a lot of attention.
I want to open a cooperative store.
Her master’s thesis was highly esteemed and is now being prepared for publication.
Each of us gave a short talk and then we had to assess each other’s performance.
Even when I go to bed early, I’m still tired in the morning.
Even though I paid her for the room, I knew she would prefer to live alone.
In the future it might even be possible to work only thirty-five hours a week.
I am pleased to be able to write to you at (long) last.
You will be informed of the committee’s decision in due course.
They make televisions, radios, etc.
He has always been my hero.
I’m surprised that nobody has ever thought of it.
There was a representative from every country.
Every morning I give him his breakfast.
Every job has its good points.
I have to visit the hospital every six weeks.
Every Saturday afternoon I play tennis.
The shop sells everything, from toothbrushes to radios.
This example shows how computers affect our everyday life.
Everyone was tired of listening to her voice.
There aren’t enough jobs for everybody.
Everybody has to work.
The sun shines here every day.
This problem affects each and everyone of us.
This true story provides evidence of the power of advertising.
It happened a few years ago when I was taking my university entrance exams.
A manager is supposed to set a good example.
Besides smoke and traffic fumes, there are several other types of pollution.
The old lady never spoke to anyone unless someone came to visit her.
The old lady never spoke to anyone except when someone came to visit her.
I had never really spoken to him except to say hello.
They want nothing except to see that the children are happy.
My brother is good at everything except washing the dishes.
In their free time they do nothing except go from one cafeteria to another.
She was willing to do anything except tell me her name.
Is it possible to exchange the camera for a new one?
It is wonderful to be in London at last. I feel so excited.
He was sorry that he had lied to her and asked her to forgive him.
Make sure that you eat properly and don’t forget to do your exercises.
You will never be able to speak fluently unless you practise.
An exhaustive investigation finally revealed the cause of the accident.
The problem of hunger has existed for centuries.
I’m doing the course to increase my job opportunities.
The epidemic began to spread rapidly.
The newspapers are not allowed to spread political ideas.
After a few minutes he stopped speaking and waited for their reaction.
She was standing by the reception desk, waiting for a taxi.
I hope that you will be able to come to the party.
Prices in Britain are not as high as in Japan.
The disadvantage is that the cost is very high.
I had my first teaching experience in Scotland.
While I was going home, I had a bad experience.
If I go to England, I’ll have a lot of new experiences.
I hadn’t had any experience of changing a car wheel.
I knew that he had no experience of driving in the dark.
Older people have had more experience of life.
Many of us have had experience of living overseas.
They shouldn’t be allowed to perform these experiments.
I agree that it is wrong to experiment on animals.
Your teachers will explain to you where you are going to stay.
The hijackers threatened to blow up the plane.
His paintings have been exhibited in art galleries all over the world.
Many species are becoming extinct.
Doctors have to keep up with all the major new medical developments.
I’m absolutely convinced that there will not be another war.
The house faces a very busy road.
It faces the Gulf of Mexico.
We now face a totally different situation.
I didn’t like the silly smile on his face.
She always wears a lot of make-up on her face.
These problems are just two sides of the same coin.
In my own country, Saudi Arabia, the government faces many problems.
I accept the fact that politics and ecology will never go hand in hand.
The wheat is collected and sent to the flour mill.
The brick works was closed down during the recession.
Just outside the town there is a large chemical plant.
They intend to build either a sports centre or a shoe factory.
This problem has been caused by a fall in the birth rate.
I would like to familiarize myself with the latest teaching methods.
The shops in London are absolutely fantastic.
Were the voices real or just products of his imagination?
Singapore is a long way from London.
When the bomb exploded, everyone tried to get as far away as possible.
My village is about 10 minutes (away) from Ayia Napa.
I’d like to stay on a farm where you can eat homemade food.
I was (absolutely) fascinated by the speed with which they worked.
His wife is slightly overweight.
He’s put on a lot of weight since we last saw each other.
I apologize for our mistake and will send you a full refund.
If you have time, could you correct the mistakes in this letter for me?
I am totally in favour of the proposal.
We are going to vote in favour of its construction.
My favourite drink is lemonade.
She suddenly felt afraid.
I don’t go swimming because I am afraid of the water.
I don’t go swimming because of my fear of the water.
All these problems make me fear for the children’s future.
I didn’t know that there would be a delivery charge.
If you hire a television, there is a monthly rental to pay.
He feels that they have made a big mistake.
I woke up the next day feeling terrible.
She says that she feels trapped in the job.
The meeting provided a good opportunity for her to express her feelings.
In front of them was a six-foot wall.
My boss started to shout at me in front of all my workmates.
Most women want to continue their careers after marriage.
In 1992 she won the women’s marathon in Athens.
I’d caught a cold and had a high temperature.
With the little money he had been given, he bought an apple and some cheese.
A few minutes later the sales manager arrived.
They spent the whole night fighting the fire.
Why were the boys fighting each other?
You’ll have to fill in an application form.
It was difficult to understand people for a long time but eventually I got used to their accent.
I’d like to find out why nobody likes me.
The doctors are trying to find out what is wrong with him.
Nurses find it very difficult to start a family while they are working.
Hello, John. How are you? Fine, thank you.
If there is a gas leak, the house could catch fire.
One of the curtains caught fire.
Eventually, the fire went out and the room got colder.
I went and sat next to him. At first, I didn’t speak. I just sat there wondering what I could say. Then I said, ‘Nice day, isn’t it?’
At first, I couldn’t understand the local people at all.
I had never seen such brightly coloured fish before.
You should see a doctor or specialist to find out which type of diet will suit you.
A school like Summerhill will not suit everybody.
Of course you will need some old paintings to match the furniture.
A little exercise will help you to keep fit.
The fire started on the seventh floor.
Room 229 was on the second floor.
I think I have caught (the) flu.
You can go in your own car or come with me.
The child was caught stealing food.
It is a disgrace to serve such poor food.
The child was caught stealing food.
It is a disgrace to serve such poor food.
I was a fool to believe him.
I was foolish to believe him.
Whenever there is a strike, we have to go to work on foot.
I studied in Freiburg to be a kindergarden teacher.
Being married makes it easier to answer this question.
Unemployment has become a serious problem over the last few years.
I’ve been waiting here for almost an hour.
I do badly in tests because I am lazy.
We must not forget Japan’s economic power.
The sovereign has very little power nowadays.
Some foreign students feel homesick.
In my job I have to speak foreign languages.
Nobody lives for ever.
Would you please check whether I have left a black handbag in Room 21.
It was fortunate/lucky that the driver was able to stop in time.
I look forward to hearing from you. Yours, Leine.
When I heard the thunder I was frightened for a moment.
I have been living in England since last September.
The bus stop is outside the post office, opposite the library.
The shop sells fruit and vegetables.
I never buy tinned fruit.
A good novel can give you a lot of pleasure.
The game we played was a lot of fun.
College life is not much fun.
On my birthday I had some good fun with my friends.
It would be great fun if we could go together.
While on holiday I had lots of fun.
I’m sure that you will have a lot of fun here.
It will be more fun to go by bus.
We’ve organized lots of fun activities, including a picnic and a trip to the zoo.
The carnival is held once a year and everyone has a good time.
The room was so full of furniture it was difficult to move.
In the future, when my youngest child has started school, I’d like to get a job.
For two weeks’ work, I earn about 700,000 yen.
Without a job it’s impossible to earn any money.
My father was a very kind man, always helping people.
The shop assistant asked me politely what I wanted.
I wonder if you would kindly lend us a room for one of the monthly meetings.
She gave him some cheese sandwiches.
They always give the new students a warm welcome.
I would be grateful if you could send me an application form.
She was a very happy person, and very intelligent.
We hope that you will like this school and be happy here.
I have to vacuum the floors and clean the windows.
He wears old-fashioned glasses which make him look intelligent.
The next morning she came to see us at the hotel.
How do I get to the Holiday Inn?
He was lost and didn’t know how to get back home.
We go swimming every day on holiday.
They’ve gone camping on Lantau Island.
We reached our destination just after three o’clock.
It’s a navy blue coat with gold buttons.
The purse contained six gold coins.
Have you ever been to France? she asked.
Do you know when the plane is going to land?
The principal is going to give a talk in the morning.
I don’t speak English very well.
I hope I’ll do well in tomorrow’s test.
I’m not very good at writing essays.
It’s no good putting a very young child in a kindergarten.
It’s no good wanting to help the poor if you don’t do anything about it.
He had very little money and very few possessions.
I have (got) several friends who don’t want children.
By the end of the war he had been promoted to the rank of captain.
We cannot take it for granted that a computer system will never fail.
I don’t have any serious problems.
Blackmail is a serious crime.
Living standards have improved enormously.
The people in each group have to guess the word.
Turkey occupies about 40 per cent of our land/territory.
They do not have enough food or land to grow it on.
Gradually the soil loses the ability to hold water.
My job is to analyse samples of soil.
A shot rang out and one of the men fell to the ground.
I fell to the ground, hoping that nobody had seen me.
Many of these children grow up in an atmosphere of violence.
Some parents need to be taught how to bring up their children.
May I remind you that the cassette recorder is still under guarantee.
I greatly appreciate all your help and guidance.
The jury found the defendant guilty.
He was tried and found guilty of murder.
They feel guilty about neglecting their duty.
See SHOOT 2
I took up gymnastics when I was at school.
It is a custom in Japan to take off your shoes before entering a house.
Once one has acquired the habit, smoking is very difficult to give up.
He had black hair and very clear eyes.
He agreed to give her half of the money.
We will stay in Bangkok for two and a half days.
Don’t stand up until the bus comes to a halt.
On the other hand, many women choose to go out to work.
The future of millions of people should not be in the hands of one man.
He came out of the bathroom with a towel in his hand.
I learned how to run a house and handle small children.
That is surely not the way to handle something so fragile.
Then something happened that made me very angry.
I don’t know what’s happened to him. He should be here by now.
I tried hard to remember where I had parked the car.
It was raining hard and we all got wet.
Society shouldn’t punish these people too hard/severely.
It was so dark that we could hardly see.
There were hardly any trees left, just bare rocky land.
When we arrived at the hotel, we could hardly believe our eyes.
After buying the food, he didn’t have any money left.
I stayed at home yesterday because I had a bad cold.
If I drink coffee, I get a headache.
I hope this letter finds you in good health.
They all sat down and listened to my story.
Her car was involved in a serious accident.
All the prisoners had committed serious crimes.
The girl’s parents couldn’t help worrying about her.
Remember to call me if you need help.
The weather here is very cold.
The people here believe in Hinduism.
Beauvais is very proud of having the tallest cathedral in Europe.
Smoke pours out of the tall chimneys all day long.
Capital punishment aims to deter people from committing such crimes.
I’m renting a small house near the university.
She likes reading historical novels.
He likes reading history books.
We spent the afternoon at the history museum.
We shall be taking you to see several interesting historic places.
Turning round, I knocked over a vase which broke into several pieces.
I was so terrified that I punched and kicked them with all my might.
As soon as she saw the mouse, she picked up a knife.
He didn’t want us to see the hole in his sock.
The yacht hit the side of the ferry and made a hole in it.
She said she was going on holiday to France.
I’ve just got back from holiday.
It’s time you had a holiday.
At Easter a lot of pensioners go to Lugano to have a holiday.
As soon as I arrived home, I knew that something was wrong.
I have to stay at home to look after our baby.
We decided to spend the weekend at home.
We left my uncle’s house at ten o’clock.
If they want to go out, they have to ask their husbands.
Saudi women were not allowed to go out to work.
Have you done your homework?
Our teacher wanted to know why we hadn’t done our homework.
To be honest, we didn’t play very well in the final.
To tell you the truth, I don’t really like her husband.
I can honestly say that I haven’t seen anyone work so hard.
I hope that one day things will change.
I hope that you will think seriously about this matter.
I hope you have a good time at the party.
I sincerely hope that there will never be another war.
I think the students will feel disheartened because they have already tried their best and failed.
The tiny light looked like a star on the horizon.
Further education enables you to broaden your horizons.
I’ve been in hospital for the last five weeks.
I want to go and see my grandmother who is ill in hospital.
It gave me the opportunity to work in a hospital.
It was a twelve-hour trip.
At the weekend they have to do all the housework.
Some women get no help with the housework.
Most Korean women are housewives.
I do all the housework myself.
Could you describe what the driver looks like?
What do the new shoes feel like?
What do you think of the hotel?
Should I tell him the truth? What do you think?
Please let me know how much the postage.
I must tell you how pleased I was to receive a letter from you.
I keep telling myself how lucky I am to have such wonderful children.
I don’t like shopping but I’II come with you.
Meno Park in Central Tokyo is (absolutely) huge.
The human brain works better in the morning.
He was living in a cold basement flat which had damp walls and almost no furniture.
Bill looks angry. Is he in a bad mood?
Sometimes when I’m in a good mood, I like to cook something special.
I was in a hurry to catch the train.
She is one year younger than me.
I am being trained to look after sick children.
He wanted to be with his son who was seriously ill.
People tend to become less imaginative as they grow older.
I think I shall copy my friend and join the club too.
At the airport he immediately began taking photographs.
Some of those who can’t find a job decide to emigrate.
We’re planning to emigrate to the United States next year.
I doubt whether it will have an impact on the readers.
He said that money was not important to him.
I decided to change my image and had all my hair cut short.
My first impression of Californians was very positive.
He wanted to make a good impression on his girlfriend.
I hope your trip will provide inspiration for the essay you will have to write when you get back.
On 1st July we went to Italy by car.
I haven’t seen any good films this year.
There was almost a nuclear disaster last year.
We intend to visit the north of England this summer.
We have 4 classes a day.
They usually work 39 hours a week.
I noticed that nobody cried at the funeral.
I’m sorry that I can’t be there at the wedding.
I’m a student at the University of Jordan.
For the last year I have been studying at the British Council.
One of the bottles containing the virus had been stolen.
Classes should contain no more than 20 students.
Milk also contains vitamins.
The poem consists of just two short verses.
Education in Jordan consists of three stages.
I am enclosing a photograph of myself.
I’d like to improve my English.
We can improve the economic situation by working harder.
The government is trying to raise the level of education.
In Hong Kong the standard of living has risen sharply.
There has been an increase in the number of cars.
Secondary students are under very great pressure indeed.
We all had a very good time indeed.
Nowadays young people want to be independent of their parents.
As it was raining we decided to stay indoors.
Their new house even has an indoor swimming pool.
The South has fewer industrial areas.
The biggest companies in Jakobsberg are Philips and IBM.
There are car factories/plants all over the place.
They are demanding that all the nuclear plants are shut down.
Another thing that education has changed is industry.
Industry as a whole must become more environmentally friendly.
Mr Fox had a very difficult childhood.
I had to stay at home and look after my children.
They still think that women are inferior to men.
These drugs have no effect on the virus.
I asked him not to keep disturbing me, but it had no effect.
I don’t think that longer prison sentences would influence criminals.
On Friday we’ll be able to give you further information about the trip.
Can you give me any information about summer courses?
Would you please send me more information about the course?
Let me know if you need (any) further information.
The bathroom was already occupied.
The local inhabitants certainly know how to make money from tourists.
The rapid growth of the world’s population has produced serious social and economic problems.
We must all stop damaging the environment.
He shot dead 22 innocent people and wounded 23 others.
Several people were injured in the accident.
After making several enquiries, I finally discovered his address.
Inside the wallet there should be £20 and my Visa Card.
The porter insisted that he (should) help us with our baggage.
Instead of going to a disco, we went to the cinema.
The machine is supplied with instructions on how to use it.
I’m here to give you some instructions on how to cook Bin Dae Tuck.
Students that are motivated tend to work harder.
The government has embarked on an intensive industrialization programme.
It was a very interesting idea.
She is interested in learning French.
I am not really interested in the job.
I was interested to hear she had got married.
Solutions to the country’s internal problems are still a long way away.
The noise of the traffic disturbs the local residents.
Reporters have no right to intrude upon people’s private lives.
It will not be long before scientists discover a cure for this terrible disease.
The word ‘workaholic’ was coined in America.
Recent advances in medicine have helped to reduce the rate of infant mortality.
Businessmen invest vast amounts in these industries.
We should invest more money in education.
The Hong Kong government has already investigated these problems.
Thank you for the invitation to your wedding.
We became friends and he invited me to his wedding.
I’ve been invited to a party on Friday.
My job involves dealing with customer complaints.
It’s very easy to get lost in a big city.
I was on holiday with my parents on the island of Capri.
Does anyone live on the island?
It’s easy to buy exactly what you want in a big city.
The cat sat in front of the fire, cleaning its whiskers.
It’s a nice place to have a holiday.
I don’t understand computer jargon.
Although I’m jealous of his achievements, he is my brother and I’m proud of him.
She had bought the ring at a jeweller’s.
You should keep expensive jewellery in a bank or safe.
The photographer did quite a good job.
With the right tools, I could do the job in five minutes.
I’m willing to accept any job, even a part-time one.
You should join our tennis club.
I came to England a year ago to join my husband.
He kept telling the same joke again and again.
I’ve arranged a trip to Malta from April 15th to May 2nd.
I booked a trip to Brighton for two weeks.
It wasn’t the first journey he had made to Paris.
He was tried and sentenced to life imprisonment.
You shouldn’t judge people by their appearance.
What standards should we judge them by?
The price of vegetables jumped overnight.
If you are caught dropping litter in the street, you are fined.
In the evening you should practise what you have just learned during the day.
The legal system ensures justice for everyone.
The key to our success is that we all worked very hard.
Films of this type are not suitable for young children.
I wonder if you would be so kind as to send me further details and an application form.
All the people he met were very kind to him.
There are many kinds of job for people with qualifications.
I enjoy all kinds of sport.
Imprisonment is not a good way of reducing this kind of crime.
You are very kind to spare me so much of your time.
She is always very kind and helpful.
He thinks that someone hit him on the head.
When Sandra knocked on the door, he was washing his face.
I ran downstairs to find out what was happening.
The best way to get to know the city is to visit it on foot.
I got to know the south of London very well.
He knew exactly/precisely where he wanted to go.
I am attending this course to improve my knowledge of English.
In this job you will need a good knowledge of English.
At school I used to lack confidence.
She certainly doesn’t lack enthusiasm.
Lots of kings chose to live here because of the beautiful scenery.
The scenery surrounding the village is really beautiful.
It was so dark in the park that she kept wandering from the path.
I speak Arabic all the time.
The road wasn’t wide enough for two cars.
Did you hear what happened last Friday?
Last Monday was a terrible day.
In recent years many people have stopped smoking.
As a dress designer, I am very interested in the latest fashions.
Last but not least, I must mention the climate.
In the end/Eventually I got bored with walking round the streets, and went back home.
I often watch television until late at night.
Recently someone told me that the fire was caused by a cigarette.
Lately I’ve been playing a lot of Miles Davis tapes.
The last election was won by the socialists.
In the last decades of the twentieth century, the world has seen many changes.
His laughter filled the whole apartment.
The tourists were lying in the hot sun like corpses.
We broke down the door and found him lying on the carpet.
Ali asked us if we would take him to the theatre one night.
After breakfast I took my daughter to school as usual.
In the museum I learned about Balinese culture.
I leave Bilbao on 12th June.
I left the shop without buying anything.
Ken’s aunt left for New York on 17th April.
Every woman is entitled to maternity leave.
Could I borrow your pen just for a minute?
To hire/rent a car, you have to have a driving licence.
We usually rent a villa so that we can cook for ourselves.
The question is whether doctors should prolong life when there is no hope of recovery.
Teachers today are less strict than they used to be.
Fortunately, my workload has been reduced.
The best solution is to reduce the amount of traffic entering the town.
I’ve been studying very hard.
After lunch we’re having a history lesson.
I have lessons on Thursdays and Fridays.
I’ve started to have/take lessons in English and French.
You can travel by train or rent/hire a car.
Do you think your parents will let you go to England?
These courses are taught at postgraduate level.
The volume of the radio should be kept at a low level.
People in developed countries have a higher standard of living.
What will we do if the sea level continues to rise?
I was sure the old woman was telling lies.
After a while he stopped running and lay down on the ground.
The cost of living is very high in London.
During a recession, some people find it difficult to make a living.
Television has taught me a lot about the American way of life.
Life in the countryside is quiet and relaxed.
He didn’t enjoy life in the army at all.
He was the most attractive man that I had ever met.
It was one of the happiest days of my life.
On Saturday nights there is usually live music at the club.
It was dark inside so I lit a match.
Suddenly a wonderful smile lit up her face.
The road was poorly lit and it was difficult to see.
What he would like to know is how much it will cost.
Would you like me to show you where to go?
Would you like to go for a walk with me?
I don’t like it when friends of mine get married.
She spoke very loudly as if I was deaf.
One solution would be for the government to place restrictions on when these programmes may be broadcast.
We complained about the dirty bed linen.
I looked to see if my name was on the list.
My mother never listens to what I say.
He invited me to listen to his new CD.
All I could see in the darkness was the end of his lighted cigarette.
In the cities the streets are full of litter.
Children should be taught that it is wrong to drop litter.
He works in a small office building in Geneva.
His parents died when he was still a small child.
The police asked for a brief description of the car.
He told me that I needed a minor operation.
Today there are too many people for too few jobs.
At the hotel, we stayed in room 101.
The local farmers will never change their way of life.
We have different languages, traditions and life styles.
The military government borrowed millions of dollars from the world bank.
Wait here and I’ll see if I can find him for you.
Then I looked at the person sitting next to her.
The report takes a close look at meat consumption.
His illness has caused him to miss a lot of lessons.
I don’t care if they’re lazy, as long as they don’t waste my time.
This morning I noticed that my purse was missing.
She makes us do a lot of homework.
She makes us do lots of homework.
A lot of people come here because it’s near Morocco.
Groceries here are a lot cheaper than in Japan.
My husband and I met each other many years ago.
The problem is that for many years smoking was not considered to be anti-social.
There are a lot of countries in the same situation.
I’m sure that once you see Venice, you’ll love it.
I’d just like to say goodbye and wish you good luck.
What rotten luck! There he was again, sitting right beside me.
There was no room in the car for all our luggage.
He had brought some heavy luggage with him.
Consumers are offered more and more luxury goods.
Many people today do not consider a car as a luxury.
They don’t have any money to spend on luxuries.
Some successful criminals enjoy a life of luxury.
Over eighty per cent of these cars are old, and so are their engines.
She began to think she was going mad.
I’ve always been mad about tennis.
She claimed that the jumper was made of wool.
Many components are made of plastic.
It takes seventeen trees to produce one ton of junk mail.
These problems mainly involve the definition of words.
Most houses in Germany have fitted carpets.
The majority of motorists are opposed to the scheme.
I didn’t do anything in particular. I just stayed at home.
In Italy we have done a great deal to prevent pollution.
He looked as if he had done something wrong.
I had lots of fun in London.
On Saturday we’re having a party.
The cold water made me shiver.
What made you decide to work in the theatre?
Every day man is inventing new machines.
These bombs could lead to the destruction of mankind.
In art we discover the beauty of the human imagination.
American culture is all about freedom and equality.
Every society has its own laws and traditions/customs.
One of the policemen started asking me a lot of questions.
We are given a lot of tests.
It’s important to understand why there is so much violence in our world.
I had never seen so many bright stars in the sky.
There are not many interesting Sunday newspapers.
Her only distinguishing feature is her long blond hair.
As for cigarettes, there are many different brands.
The magazine gives a list of all the computers on the market.
Why didn’t you invite me to your wedding?
I have just received your wedding invitation.
She is married to a post office worker.
He’s going to ask her to marry him.
His daughter is expected to marry a viscount.
After they get married, they’re going abroad.
I have a master’s in Hotel Management.
The green jacket doesn’t match the trousers.
We chose the sunflowers to match the wallpaper.
In today’s materialistic society, most people think only about money.
Mathematics is my favourite subject.
He isn’t mature enough to get married.
Replacing such a politically mature leader will not be easy.
If I hadn’t seen the car coming, I might have been killed.
You may find the film very boring.
I got myself a drink and sat down on the sofa.
What can I tell you about myself?
You will be able to try some of the traditional dishes.
We always have our meals in the canteen.
Being a good flight attendant means making your passengers feel relaxed.
He was determined to get the money by whatever means.
By no means do I want to suggest that people like being unemployed.
In my opinion, the authorities have to take even stricter measures to save our archaeological treasures.
Television is a very powerful medium.
The media, such as radio and television, tell us what is happening in the world.
After taking the medicine, I felt sleepy.
The average score was about 6 out of 10.
My ability in English is about average.
Could you meet me outside the station?
The next time I met her was in the supermarket.
Hello John. It’s good to see you.
I can’t wait to see you again at Christmas.
Each visitor received a small gift as a souvenir.
I bought six postcards and a few small souvenirs.
Casanova recorded his adventures in his memoirs.
I have many happy memories of my childhood.
Nowadays world peace is threatened.
Old cars are easier to repair.
Modern society provides us with material comforts but very few spiritual rewards.
For the main course we had fish, rice and vegetables.
My favourite dish is cheese and mushroom omelette.
We’ll have to find new ways of amusing ourselves.
The girl was of medium height and was wearing a blue suit.
The wallet was medium brown and contained sixty dollars.
In the middle of September she is going on maternity leave.
The history of the town dates back to the Middle Ages.
Her plane is due to land at about midnight.
A lot of new doctors emigrate to America where they can earn more money.
Belgium has ten million inhabitants.
The paper has a circulation of approximately 3.9 million.
We hung just over a million little electric bulbs on the trees.
Nearly half a million people entered the country.
I don’t mind waiting a bit longer.
The first thing that comes to mind when I think about France is wine.
The train arrived at exactly twelve minutes past three.
The college is a twenty-minute bus ride from my flat.
Her flight was held up on account of the fog.
It doesn’t matter if you make a slight mistake.
Dear Mr Southcroft...
Basement flats are often dark and damp.
At that moment the door opened.
At that moment the girl opened her eyes.
The moment I saw him, I knew something was wrong.
I’d like to see him in my office the moment he arrives.
The atmosphere of the castle depends on the weather.
The streets were very crowded and had a holiday atmosphere.
In Taiwan the food is cheaper than in England.
These machines make farming much easier.
The trains are very crowded in the morning.
We see each other almost every day.
Nearly every family has a television.
It’s an old car and the engine is very noisy.
Our English teacher is called Mr (John) Smith.
Dear Mr Jones,
We don’t need to hire that many employees.
There are as many disadvantages as advantages.
There are too many people in Mexico.
Nowadays, there are far more criminals than policemen.
I make far too many mistakes.
As a doctor he earns a lot of money.
British culture is very different from ours.
We were very afraid that we would miss the flight.
Nowadays I prefer classical music.
Are we allowed to play pop music?
After leaving school, he joined a band.
People are not as careful as they should be and drop their litter in the streets.
You’ll be pleased to hear that I’ve already got the tickets.
If you can’t find her, she must be hiding somewhere.
This beautiful village is called ‘Cadaques’.
I stayed in and watched a film called ‘The Clockwork Orange’.
What we used to call ‘the Cold War’ is now over.
They named their children after their grandparents.
When immersed in water, the cloth shrinks.
It’s hard to tell which country he comes from.
The airport extension is strongly opposed by the local residents.
I have always found nature fascinating.
I went up to the girl and told her my name.
I sometimes meet friends in a nearby restaurant.
I ran to the telephone box nearby to call an ambulance.
Their house is near the new airport.
It was then that I felt the need to improve my English.
There is no need to tell the police about the accident.
There is a great need for international understanding.
I’m in urgent need of a loan.
Tina needs to leave her house at seven o’clock every morning.
They needn’t feel ashamed of themselves.
Catherine told her husband he needn’t worry.
Catherine told her husband he didn’t need to worry.
Some teachers forget how much a student can take in during one lesson.
There was a negligible amount of liquid in the test tube.
Inside the examination room we could neither smoke nor talk.
His parents neither shouted at him nor smacked him.
Neither John’s father nor mine could understand the problem.
I have studied neither the language nor the culture.
Thinking she might be hurt, I felt very anxious.
I asked him never to arrive late.
You can never get really good beef in our local supermarket.
She said some of the rudest things I have ever heard in all my life.
Never had I seen such an ugly face.
The news is never very good nowadays.
I’m looking forward to hearing some good news from you.
I’m looking forward to seeing you next Sunday.
I have some spare time this week but next week I’ll have to start work.
There is a nice quiet room where I do my work.
I turned on the radio but there was no sound.
He was woken up by the sound of broken glass.
I was woken up by a loud noise outside the room.
The restaurant was full and there was a lot of noise.
You can talk as long as you don’t make a lot of noise.
Mr Tong was appointed manager of the company in 1984.
I checked the essay for mistakes but I couldn’t find any.
He told me not to spend too long in the sun.
It was so dark that I couldn’t see anything.
I wrote him a note saying that the package had arrived.
It was so crowded that at first I didn’t see/notice him.
I noticed that he was not enjoying himself.
I could see that he was not enjoying himself.
From now on I shall make all the decisions myself.
People live longer nowadays.
This is a major problem for today’s society.
The number of heavy smokers is decreasing.
A large number of cars were parked outside the school.
Harsher punishments will not reduce the number of crimes.
Harsher punishments will not reduce the amount of crime.
In England I met a large number of women in senior positions.
He was a good boy and obeyed his parents all the time.
My objective is to improve my English as much as possible.
My duties include doing the housework and picking up the children from school.
You can’t force children to study if they don’t want to.
It has taken women a long time to achieve equality.
With these new policies the government hopes to achieve economic stability.
Where did you get the ticket?
The scholarship provided me with my first opportunity to travel overseas.
I never had a chance to take the Proficiency examination.
I remember that on the last occasion he had a very bad cold.
It used to be difficult for women to get good jobs.
The important thing is to be happy in your job.
The concert will take place at eight o’clock next Tuesday.
You’d better tell them exactly what happened.
It was twenty past four when the train arrived.
By seven p.m. the child had been found.
By seven o’clock (in the evening) the child had been found.
I start work at 9 o’clock.
Over a thousand people have died from the disease.
We stayed in one of the most beautiful villages in Kent.
I arrived in London on 25th November.
He is a good friend of theirs.
A friend of yours phoned and wants you to call her.
The scenery reminded her of a painting by Renoir.
Don’t forget to turn off the lights before you go out.
The glass fell off the table.
Public caning would deter other students from committing the offence.
Her parents have invited me to go on holiday with them.
Most of my friends got jobs as shop assistants or office workers.
A British Airways official told us that there was a delay.
She is good at organizing people without seeming arrogant or officious.
People often stop smoking when they are ill.
He has often said that he would like to be young again.
The trains are often late.
The chips were so greasy that I couldn’t eat them.
He is married to a twenty-year-old American girl.
Eight-year-old Sarah had a few surprises up her sleeve.
The elderly should not be brushed aside by society.
Last Monday we went to the Railway Museum.
Every Saturday morning we go shopping.
I was surprised to see your picture in the newspaper.
You may remember we once had a long talk in the hotel bar.
Once it stops raining, we can go out.
Fluency in English is one of the best qualifications you can have.
The sea is one of our main sources of food.
One of the eggs was bad.
If you can carry those books, I’ll bring these.
This book will be of interest to all those involved in the tourist industry.
British children have more opportunities than Tunisian children.
Young people learn more quickly than older people.
One mustn’t waste one’s time when there is so much to do.
Getting married for economic reasons is not a good start to one’s married life.
One cannot succeed unless one works hard.
The level of pollution can be reduced only by the introduction of new laws.
If only you would stay longer, your English would improve.
If you would only stay longer, your English would improve.
I got out of bed and turned/switched on the radio to listen to the news.
If anyone tried to introduce a new topic, she would immediately interrupt.
I couldn’t buy a newspaper because the shop wasn’t open.
My niece was recently operated on for appendicitis.
My mother is having an operation tomorrow.
Mr Barrett is going to have an operation on his back.
In Henry’s opinion, less money should be spent on weapons.
They are not afraid of expressing their opinions.
People have different opinions about this matter.
On the wall opposite the door, there was a large painting.
The phone booths are opposite the tube station.
The woman opposite was knitting a cardigan.
At night we used to go out with our friends or stay at home listening to music.
I think the microphone or the recording mechanism is broken.
Her spoken English is very fluent and clear.
I’ve booked two seats for tomorrow night’s performance.
Many craftsmen have given up their traditional skills to work in factories.
One of our teachers comes from Scotland.
Remember to get there early or you may not get a seat.
When we came out of the restaurant, it was half past eleven.
She suddenly stood up and ran out of the room.
There are lots of outdoor activities in and around Coimbra.
I’ll be going out of London for a few days.
She was listening outside the door.
England is okay on the whole, although some places are very dirty.
I had the whole beach to myself.
He’s decided to resign and work for himself.
They want everything for themselves.
I didn’t have a room of my own but had to share one.
I now have enough money to buy my own car.
I want to learn English at my own pace.
I bought six eggs and a packet of tea.
He smokes about one packet a day.
The operation was successful but I still feel a lot of pain.
The old couple next door have been married for 65 years.
Have you always worn glasses?
Each of us was given a clean sheet of paper to write on.
I asked the teacher if I could be excused for a few minutes.
I’m sorry, but I was very busy and couldn’t spare the time.
The car was parked outside the flat all night.
What the town needs is underground parking.
What the town needs is an underground car park.
Part of the difficulty was caused by her poor English.
He refuses to part with his old camera.
The election will take place within the next two years.
Did you go to Yolanda’s party on Saturday?
I think you ought to join a club.
Teams from all Asian countries will participate in the event.
Putting fluoride in the water may solve the problem to some extent.
On Christmas Day we always have a big party.
Next Saturday we’re having a small party at John’s house.
The party was being held at a friend’s house.
We like to spend our holidays near the sea.
We spent the night in a cheap hotel.
I spent Christmas in London.
It’s almost a year since we first met each other.
I was 8 years old when my father passed away.
Several taxis passed me without stopping.
Their daily routine doesn’t include enough exercise.
Very few office workers get good pay.
Or Schneider charges a high fee but he is very good.
She said she liked the jumper because the colour was very unusual.
People come from all over the world to visit the city.
There were few people at the funeral.
I think people who do these things should be punished.
Only a small percentage of the windmills still work.
I am pleased to say that the tape recorder now works perfectly.
In his last film he played a middle-aged school teacher.
These traditions took a long time to evolve.
She needs somewhere to live for a while.
To get a job in Switzerland, foreigners need special permission.
These traditions took a long time to evolve.
She needs somewhere to live for a while.
To get a job in Switzerland, foreigners need special permission.
Eventually he gave me (his) permission to stay at home.
Very soon everyone will have a portable computer.
Anyone can vote in the election.
The meals can be improved if the canteen personnel agree to cooperate.
He is a man of strong character who will fight for what is right.
Her books deal mainly with personal relationships, especially marital problems.
This phenomenon is called ‘culture shock’.
She phoned the hospital to ask about her husband.
Just phone 555-879 and I’ll come and get you.
We decided to have a picnic in the field opposite the house.
The cushions had been removed from the sofa and scattered on the floor.
We both felt pity for her when we saw how lonely she was.
When I saw these pitiful children, my eyes filled with tears.
She expected me to take pity on her and help her.
She expected me to feel pity for her and help her.
I hope there’s enough room in the wardrobe for all your clothes.
I left the coat in my room but it may not be there any longer.
When I lived at home, my father did not let me go anywhere on my own.
He was looking for somewhere to spend the night.
I was born on a little planet in outer space.
You’ll be able to try some of the local dishes.
I’ve been playing the piano since I was eight.
We would be very pleased if you could attend.
The main film was preceded by a short cartoon.
The production of plastic paper clips has seven stages.
He has applied for a job as a teacher in a language school.
The company has made enormous profits in recent years.
The company has made enormous profits in recent years.
We have made great progress in the field of medicine.
In some professions it is still difficult for women to get promotion.
These bones are proof that the animals really existed.
Today we have scientific proof that tobacco is harmful.
The television company receives most of its money from advertising.
The police eventually found most of the stolen property.
A friend of mine has offered me a job in his restaurant.
He offered to put them up for a few days.
She told the shop assistant that she wanted to complain about the cardigan she had bought.
My job provides me with the opportunity to meet new people every day.
The government does not provide enough food for the population.
I was very pleased with the room you provided for me.
In my view, a father should provide for his family.
I think governments should ban the advertising of tobacco.
The police are in favour of harsher punishments.
We opened the window to get some fresh air.
I always keep a few bottles of fresh/drinking water on the boat.
The reason why I have come here is to improve my English.
I am taking another course to improve my qualifications.
Switzerland produces goods of a very high quality.
He served his country for over a quarter of a century.
I ran to the nearest phone booth.
This year the work at university is rather harder than last year.
In the circumstances, it was quite a rude answer.
There are quite a lot of foreign students in London.
I always listen to the news on the radio.
On the radio there was a current affairs programme.
Two minutes later it started pouring with rain.
There was no rain for over three months.
The afternoon was very wet.
It’s wet again today.
It’s raining again today.
When I was a child, I used to grow my own flowers in a corner of the garden.
They offered to raise my salary.
The cost of living has risen by 20 per cent this year.
Sales rose rapidly.
The rain had caused the water level to rise.
There has been an enormous rise in house prices.
These new trains are very fast.
I quickly took the gun out of my pocket.
Water is very scarce in some parts of the country.
I think that my name is unusual.
In San Francisco I saw some unusual architecture.
The bed was quite comfortable.
The weather is quite good today.
They prefer violent films to romantic ones.
I’d rather take him to somewhere less crowded.
I prefer to take him to somewhere less crowded.
I’d prefer just to lie on the beach.
I would rather go abroad for my holidays.
When the blue car reached the corner, it stopped.
It’s time the government reacted to the crisis.
Their reaction to the article was predictable.
The criminal mind is not always easy to understand.
I didn’t understand the meaning of ‘junk mail’.
The school year is divided into three terms, as you know.
Nobody knew whether he was coming.
Our own mistakes are sometimes difficult to recognize.
I’m sure you will recognize the song when you hear it.
Many people in developing countries do not practise family planning.
That’s a really good idea.
It was only a short trip but we had a really good time.
It was only a short trip but we really had a good time.
To his great amazement, little Nicola actually won the race.
My reason for coming here is to improve my English.
The main reason why I am here is to study for my Master’s degree.
My reason for not buying the car was that it was too expensive.
I don’t agree with them for many reasons.
I was far too upset and emotional to make a rational decision.
She usually gets reasonably good marks.
Over the last 30 years there has been a great deal of industrial development.
Tennis has become popular in Germany in recent years.
In recent years the crime rate has increased.
On the plane home, I suddenly realized that I had left my coat at the hotel.
I recommend a walk along the Seine.
I wouldn’t recommend letting your children watch it.
With reference to your letter of 6th September, I am pleased to confirm that the books have now arrived.
We all refrained from telling her what we really thought.
He rejected their lifestyle and decided to seek a simpler alternative.
I reject the idea that men and women are psychologically different.
He felt rejected by the man he admired most.
With regard to accommodation, there are several excellent hotels.
As regards our working environment, the machines make too much noise.
He shows no regard for other people.
Regarding your letter of 22 November, I have referred your query to our accounts department.
We have to train every day, regardless of the weather.
In any case I didn’t regret staying at home.
I now regret not having worked harder at school.
Many of these illnesses are related to smoking.
The size of a family is closely related to parental income.
I thought that offering to help him might improve our relationship.
The relationship between teachers and students is very friendly.
I usually relax by taking a hot bath.
I think it all depends on whether you like being on your own.
A country’s strength depends on unity.
As soon as I came in I noticed your note on the table.
Do you remember me? I used to sit at the back of your class.
I remember the happy days we spent together at college.
The flowers reminded him of his garden.
If you like riding, there are horses you can hire.
How much will it cost to hire some skis?
I asked her to repeat what she had said.
He offered to replace the old battery with a new one.
It’s about time they replied to my letter.
We had to request more help.
I’m doing research into the causes of child abuse.
The government invests a lot of money in scientific research.
The project involves research into major lung diseases.
Where is he doing his research?
We’ve booked the school hall for the evening.
I’ve finally managed to book a two-room house on the beach.
She couldn’t stand his rudeness any longer and walked out of the room.
The old couple resisted all the pressure that was put on them to move.
Without weapons there was no way of resisting the attack.
Tourism is the main source of money for these people.
Teachers are often regarded as a source of knowledge.
They should respect each other’s opinions.
Some former prisoners are now respectable citizens.
If you wish to make a good impression, you’ll have to look a bit more respectable.
I don’t care what they say, as long as I get a response.
We’re still waiting for them to respond.
Drugs are responsible for a large number of deaths.
Nowadays we hear a lot about pollution and its effects on our health.
After just two months he resigned and went to work for a smaller company.
She returned after half an hour.
When is he going to return the money he owes you?
One day these innocent victims must be avenged.
The damage done to his honour would have to be avenged.
I’m your twin brother and I’m here to get my revenge.
He swore to take revenge on the doctor.
Two of the German films were given awards.
They go to Hollywood in search of wealth and fame.
Every child has a right to free education.
I rang the college to explain my absence.
Many firms try to survive by raising productivity.
Not one of us would risk going out on our own.
The wicked old man stole all my money.
They stole $6000 from the office safe.
While he was asleep, she stole his watch.
In the bedroom, the ceiling looked very damp.
The bedroom ceiling was one huge mirror.
There was already a long queue of passengers waiting to be checked in.
The shop assistant was very rude to me.
The car was moving too fast for me to see the number plate.
The shopkeeper said the fault was the manufacturer’s responsibility.
The children were playing marbles on the floor of the kitchen.
The children were playing marbles on the kitchen floor.
These vitamin pills are always available at the chemist’s.
When I took the two oranges out of the bag, I discovered that one of them was bad.
In Japan even the big cities are very safe.
She doesn’t feel safe when she is on her own.
Promise that you will drive safely.
I came here for my children’s sake.
The pay/wage is 800 yen an hour.
The basic pay/wage is £60 per week.
This company prefers to employ girls to sell their products.
I bought both pairs of shoes in a sale.
A group of officials were at the airport to welcome the visitors.
Paris has the same level of pollution as Los Angeles.
The belt is made of the same material as the coat.
There were thousands of girls in the same situation as me.
The breakfast was the same as usual.
The milk cartons are the same as in Japan.
I’d like to visit Vietnam and Malaysia one day, the same as you.
She had a face (just) like a beauty queen’s.
The salary they offered was more than satisfactory.
Her examination results were not satisfactory.
I was completely satisfied with the quality of her work.
He seemed quite satisfied with my progress.
The service in the hotel was not at all satisfactory.
The police telephoned his parents to tell them that he was safe.
The policeman told me to go with him to the police station.
She told me to ask you to phone her.
When he arrived, they told him that his friend had died.
When he arrived, they said that his friend had died.
He was tired of people telling him what to do.
In our next class we’re going to talk about pollution.
The magazine also talks about English football.
If you are interested in rare birds, you should visit the bird garden.
Chocolate was very scarce during the war.
He sends them money but rarely goes to see them.
From the window, there was a beautiful view of the lake.
The driver stopped now and again so that we could enjoy the scenery.
What beautiful scenery!
You’ll be very impressed by the beautiful scenery.
Her daughter wants to leave school and get married.
He still isn’t old enough to go to school.
I’m studying for a science degree.
He’s good at science subjects.
The Science Centre is next to the History Museum.
First you cut along the dotted line with some scissors.
Every day Kino went out to sea to look for the pearl.
Rescue teams are still searching for survivors.
I searched for my passport everywhere but couldn’t find it.
I decided to look for another hotel further down the road.
Let’s go and sit out in the garden.
The first diver reappeared covered in seaweed.
He sat there all morning watching the planes taking off.
The teacher told us to watch what he was doing.
He sat nearer the tree, seeking protection.
This kind of diet seems like a punishment.
They make all their money from the sale of vegetables.
The first proposal would reduce the sales figures of the local shops.
Could you take me to the airport on Saturday?
I will send you a cheque for the full amount.
I felt terribly annoyed by his lack of sensitivity.
Children are very sensitive; they all need love and attention.
Americans can be divided into a number of ethnic groups.
England was divided into 650 constituencies.
The phrase ‘the role of women’ appeared just a few years ago.
Try to forget your work for a few hours and relax.
There are strict rules as to what you can wear to school.
I thought I saw someone’s shadow go past the window.
I sat down in the shade of a huge eucalyptus tree.
The next meeting will take place in Vienna.
When I speak English I sometimes feel embarrassed.
The Chinese feel embarrassed when they see people kissing in public.
A lot of cows and sheep died because of the polluted water.
In the afternoon we went shopping.
I go shopping twice a week.
She spoke very briefly about how they had lived during the war.
I have friends who would love to stay at home, but they have to go to work.
She made me so annoyed I felt like shouting at her.
On the other hand, I can understand why she feels disappointed.
It shows us what is happening on the other side of the world.
You will be able to see/visit the volcanoes.
I enjoy seeing/visiting new places when I’m abroad.
After lunch we went sightseeing.
The signing of the new protocol took place in Rio de Janeiro.
After a hard day’s work, I like to be quiet.
I have been studying law since 1992.
Since that journey, I have never sailed again.
I have been living in London for four weeks now.
I stayed at your hotel for three nights, from 23rd November to 26th November.
It’s a long time since I saw you last.
I knew that if I fell into the sea, I would drown.
I’m afraid that the pullover you sent me is the wrong size.
As far as I remember, you both take the same size.
I went to bed at ten o’clock last night.
After showing the conductor my ticket, I went back to sleep.
She smiled at me as if she knew me.
People eventually get ill from inhaling the smoke.
She usually has lunch at a snack bar in Barceloneta Square.
Since it’s his birthday on Monday, he’s having a party.
It’s his birthday on Monday, so he’s having a party.
My English is so poor that my wife has to translate everything.
We were not prepared for such cold weather.
The next election was won by the Socialist Party.
Our new neighbours are not very sociable.
I was asked to give a talk about women and their role in society.
Let us hope that there will be a peaceful solution to these problems.
The refugees don’t have any rights at all.
Do you have any questions?
Somehow he had to get on the train without anyone seeing him.
I ran over to the car to see if anyone was injured.
At first we couldn’t see anything suspicious.
By six o’clock I am too tired to do anything else.
Does your country export anything?
The poor bus service makes it difficult to get anywhere.
Let’s go somewhere different for a change.
I’m sorry about my terrible handwriting.
There are hundreds of millions of stars in space.
We hadn’t seen each other for a year and so we spent the whole night talking.
Neither of my parents speaks English.
We were shown how to speak to customers and handle complaints.
I intend to specialize in French literature.
Ordering a meal can be very difficult, especially when there is no menu.
They should not drop bombs on innocent people, especially children.
I also enjoy water sports and I am especially interested in sailing.
The audience laughed at every joke.
I was asked to give a speech welcoming the new students.
These new trains can travel at very high speeds.
The car in front of ours continued at the same speed.
He always drives at top speed.
They don’t have any money to spend on luxuries.
He spends everything he earns on his children.
Parents should spend more time looking after their children.
I never spend more than an hour a day studying.
She spends most of her free time reading.
I need some new sports shoes.
She bought a bright red sports car.
He does all types of sport.
Rumours spread very quickly.
The train was so full that I was frightened of getting squashed.
The assembly and packing department has 50 staff.
This view is supported by statistics published in 1985.
He’s invited us to spend a few days with him.
The bank in our town has been robbed twice this year.
If you look wealthy, you are likely to be robbed.
After ten years he discovered that his partner had been stealing from him.
It is my first time abroad and so I still feel excited and confused.
My country is still not very rich, but at least everyone has enough food to eat.
Political stability acts as a stimulus for foreign investment.
The child couldn’t stop talking.
I stopped playing the piano at the age of eight.
He loved toys and couldn’t stop looking at them.
They live on the second floor.
The children were told not to talk to strangers.
LA seemed very strange to me at first.
There are a lot of foreigners visiting England.
The whole workforce is threatening to go on strike.
When the plane took off, she held my hand tightly.
I’m a student at Goldsmith’s College.
Next July I’m going to the USA to continue my studies.
I’d like to live abroad and have a different lifestyle.
I find this lifestyle very attractive.
The driver of the car was taken to hospital unconscious.
The subject of my thesis is women in the popular press.
The woman was so unpleasant that none of us could tolerate her.
The other passenger suffered serious leg injuries.
Most of the carriers suffer from hemophilia.
She suggested going to the zoo.
Short hair suits her.
Red wine doesn’t go with fish.
I didn’t feel suited to a career in medicine.
In the afternoon we sunbathed on the beach.
The second hotel was far superior to the first one.
We shall supply you with everything you need.
He couldn’t tolerate the way his father used to shout at him.
Are you prepared to put up with the noise of the traffic?
All their products are supposed to be guaranteed for six months.
He said he felt worried because of all the recent air disasters. Naturally I became worried too.
Paola was very surprised at the low prices.
I was pleasantly surprised by the variety of food in England.
Army intelligence suspected him of being a secret agent.
Before I actually started to use one, I was sceptical about the value of computers.
He’s a selfish, greedy little man and not at all likeable.
He asked if he could come to your party and bring a friend with him.
I couldn’t speak English in those days.
I’d like to tell you about a dream I had last night.
There’s something I’d like to talk to you about.
I didn’t want to talk to him because I was in a hurry.
I prefer rooms with high ceilings.
During your visit you’ll be able to try some of the local Catalan specialties.
I buy all my family’s clothes because my husband has such poor taste.
The food was excellent and very tasty.
All of a sudden the child burst into tears.
The main cause of unemployment is modern technology.
The job requires proper technical training.
He used a lot of technical language that I didn’t understand.
Advanced technology requires massive investment.
The whole world watched the cup final on television.
Cigarettes are no longer advertised on television.
The article is about the history of Rome.
He told them that he hadn’t eaten anything for over a week.
He said that he hadn’t eaten anything for over a week.
Ryan was always talking about herself and her problems.
I tend to agree with the statement.
The traffic jams are (absolutely) terrible.
One of the world’s greatest problems is terrorism.
On my first day at the school, I had to take a test.
Thank you very much for your last letter.
First I’d like to thank you for answering my letter so quickly.
Thank you for agreeing to listen.
Thank you for giving me a chance to explain the situation.
Thanks to the microwave, we always have a hot breakfast.
I’m very grateful to you for giving me this opportunity.
It is two months now since I left Germany.
The weather has been very good, except for two days when it rained.
I was so shocked by the sight that I could hardly speak.
He closed the door quietly so that nobody would hear him.
Children are not as easy to please nowadays as they were in the past.
It worried me that the letter had not arrived, especially since/as it had never happened before.
Sitting next to me was an old lady, who seemed to be sound asleep.
If you haven’t sent it yet, I’d be pleased if you would do so as soon as possible.
She is arriving on March 25th.
Very few people can speak English well in Japan.
I have just seen a new magazine about computers.
A lot of people are afraid of death.
Nowadays pollution is a very serious problem.
My main hobby is photography.
Our plane arrived at Gatwick Airport.
The language school is in Malibu Street.
Climbing Mount Fuji in winter can be very dangerous.
They were both found guilty and sent to prison.
The Yellow River has caused many terrible floods.
It is more than ten years since I visited the West Indies.
This is my second visit to the UK.
Only very wealthy tourists can afford to stay at the Imperial Hotel.
This system was brought to Hong Kong by the British.
The hotel is not suitable for the disabled.
We took a bus to the city centre and then caught a train to London.
There were four people in the car.
In Barcelona there are plenty of things for visitors to do.
There were a lot of girls watching the game.
My sister often goes to the indoor pool but I don’t like going there.
The child looked lost and so I asked him if I could help.
The present government doesn’t care enough about the poorer sections of our society. Businessmen are encouraged to exploit workers and make huge profits. In spite of all this, I believe in the principles of free enterprise.
There were four people in the car.
In Barcelona there are plenty of things for visitors to do.
There were a lot of girls watching the game.
My sister often goes to the indoor pool but I don’t like going there.
The child looked lost and so I asked him if I could help.
The present government doesn’t care enough about the poorer sections of our society. Businessmen are encouraged to exploit workers and make huge profits.
I was wondering if you would like to have lunch before visiting the museum.
We should spend more time thinking about why people do such terrible things.
While she was away, he often thought about her.
We’re thinking of going to the beach after lunch.
He advised me to think seriously about it before making a decision.
Some foreigners think the Japanese are rich.
Will you be at home this Sunday afternoon?
Will you be at home on Sunday afternoon?
My exams are this month.
People’s attitudes and opinions don’t change overnight.
They are prepared to kill in order to defend their beliefs.
They used to threaten each other with atomic bombs.
He picked up a small stone and threw it at Sally’s window.
I heard a terribly loud noise, like thunder.
We waited for the thunder and lightning to stop.
My house is near Greenwich Park and so we’ll be able to visit the famous Observatory.
I managed to drive the car as far as the nearest hospital.
The journey takes a long time.
A long time ago there was a queen named Isabel.
At the present time the situation is getting worse.
We both left the building at the same time.
Most families get together at Christmas time.
He was born at the right time and in the right place.
The fire brigade arrived just in time, before the fire could spread.
They had to rush to get to work on time.
We went to the cinema to pass the time until the train arrived.
We had a very good time in New York.
The manager’s schedule next week is very busy.
The flight from Hong Kong to London was very tiring.
After two tiring days, we both needed some sleep.
The newspaper headlines were all about the earthquake.
He was reading a short story by Saki called ‘The Open Window’.
She sent me an article from Life Magazine entitled’ Soldier’s Anguish’.
At that moment he noticed a man running towards him.
He came into the shop and went up to the woman behind the counter.
She stood up, walked over to John, and asked him what he was doing.
I usually have a cup of coffee and some toast for breakfast.
You make some toast and I’ll set the table.
One of the children wanted to go to the toilet.
For some reason they didn’t receive the fax and your letter hasn’t arrived either.
People living in the city were not affected by the famine.
It is one of the most popular tourist resorts in Spain.
I did my training with the Swiss Bank in London.
The novel has been translated into English and French.
Some countries don’t have (any) public transport.
The journey takes about half an hour.
For long journeys we use the train.
He was exhausted from all the travelling.
There is always controversy when treasure is discovered.
It was so cold that I couldn’t stop shivering.
I’m having some trouble with my supervisor.
Sometimes my little brother is a real nuisance.
I hope all your dreams come true.
After he was caught stealing, nobody trusted him.
We all thought he was telling the truth.
The manager of the shop told me that he was not responsible for these types of fault.
Angelo took us to a typical Italian restaurant.
After dinner it is customary to sing carols.
This is my first visit to the UK.
Prices are not allowed to fall below this level.
People find it difficult to understand the Japanese.
You have to know our culture in order to understand us properly.
Reading helps us to understand the world better.
Every year we make new costumes for the carnival.
It’s one of the most unusual pieces of architecture in Spain.
I am studying sociology at London University.
After leaving school, we all went to university.
My sister is studying music at university.
I want to study Public Administration at the University of Southern California.
Bring something to eat in case you get hungry.
We can go in my car unless you prefer to walk.
To tell you the truth, it’s the most unsatisfying job I’ve ever had.
The new tunnel means that we can drive (all the way) to London.
The magazine covers everything from politics to what’s happening in Hollywood.
The school caters for children up to the age of eleven.
I will have finished this book by tomorrow.
Could you let us know your decision by the end of October.
I’ll wait here until you return.
The meals we (usually) eat are very simple.
When I’m not busy, I (usually) play the guitar.
In my previous job I used to travel a lot.
It took me a long time to get used to the local accent.
There’s no point in waiting any longer.
We soon got used to living in the countryside.
Staying in a big hotel would involve unnecessary expense.
Without all this unnecessary packaging, food would be cheaper.
As usual, he arrived five minutes late.
The food wasn’t the same as usual.
I sincerely hope you won’t be angry with me.
I have to make sure that our customers are completely satisfied.
She tried to get him to listen but to no avail.
The magazine is printed on very expensive paper.
They always buy expensive brands such as Polo, Louis Vuitton, and Yves St Laurent.
The large size is very good value.
In any case, the car gives you exceptional value for money.
I buy a lot of fresh fruit and vegetables.
He looked so funny that I couldn’t help laughing.
Meno Park in Central Tokyo is (absolutely) huge.
The traffic jams are (absolutely) terrible.
I’m (absolutely) convinced that he is telling the truth.
Their services are greatly appreciated by the hospital management.
The sight of all the blood on the ground made her feel ill.
Come over here and look at the view.
We just sat there and admired the view.
From the top of the tower you get a wonderful view of the city.
Some of these films are full of violence.
We’d like to know your personal view of the situation.
Afterwards we went to a restaurant for dinner.
I’ve been going to a language school in Cambridge.
If I ever visit Canada, I’ll go when it’s warm.
The article contained a lot of American English words.
Students should feel able to voice their opinions.
The hospital could not operate without voluntary helpers.
In my opinion, these young volunteers should be congratulated.
Next year a new president will be elected.
On the day of the election, they couldn’t be bothered to go and vote.
People are not allowed to vote for more than one candidate.
Every night they voted on what they would do the next day.
She didn’t say much about her trip to Germany.
On the first day we’ll rest because the journey will be tiring.
He has an annual salary of $40,000.
The company directors receive very high salaries.
I’m expecting a letter from my boyfriend.
Anyway, I’II expect you next weekend.
I stopped and waited for the truck to pass.
I’II wait for you outside.
We didn’t want to miss the train.
Everybody looked at him as if he were from another planet.
The report deals with the problem of nuclear waste.
He explained how we can help to protect the sea.
She loves the farm and refuses to change her way of life.
Then I put on some clothes and went downstairs.
We had miserable weather while on holiday.
We knew that a four-week holiday would bring us closer together.
At the weekend we go to the sports club.
At the weekend we usually go to a Chinese restaurant.
This weekend there is a squash tournament.
You can bring as many friends to the party as you like. Everyone is welcome.
Everything was fine until somebody came and sat in the seat next to mine.
His table manners were not very good.
It started pouring with rain and we all got soaked.
A woman can do everything (that) a man can do.
I’ll do all (that) I can to help you.
She told him that she didn’t want to marry him, which in my opinion was very silly of her.
Please tell me what you would like for a wedding present.
On hearing that the child had been found, she burst into tears.
When I return home, I’ll look for a better job.
I don’t know when she is coming.
Whenever you hear about this place, you’ll want to come back.
The box where she kept her jewellery had disappeared.
Students who/that fail the exam have to take the course again.
The Japanese have a tendency to keep silent during meetings.
While I was driving to the airport, my car broke down.
Who will look after the children while you are at work?
Most of the people (that) I met were very kind.
She is one of the few people who/that I think might be good at the job.
My education has given me a broad view of life.
The magazine gives broad descriptions of market trends.
When capital punishment was abolished, people thought that murders would become more numerous.
If a developing country is to become a developed country, it has to attract foreign investors.
We have never beaten the American team.
I hope you have a wonderful holiday.
I hope you will enjoy your stay here.
I wish that they would stop killing each other.
He wishes he could drive a car; taxis are so expensive.
I finally opened the can by using a screwdriver.
She is getting married in a few hours and she feels a bit nervous.
My examinations are in two weeks’ time.
The coat has a leather belt and three brown wooden buttons.
Without a full-time job, some people think it’s not worth living.
Without full-time work, some people think it’s not worth living.
I’ve come to England to do research work in civil engineering.
I got up and got ready to go to work.
I would like to work for an international organization.
My mother works for a large insurance company.
Nepal has one of the highest mountains in the world.
The sewing machine is one of the most widely used products in the world.
People’s lack of responsibility makes the problem even worse.
The next time I saw her she looked even worse.
The day finished worse than it began.
The ring has great sentimental value.
They do not appreciate the value of life.
A holiday isn’t worth all the effort it takes preparing for it.
It’s also worth visiting the north of England if you have time.
The museum was certainly worth seeing.
The film reviews are always worth looking at.
It’s not worth taking your own car.
If I lived in the countryside, I would be much healthier.
If you had caught the earlier train, we could have travelled together.
If you should have any more questions, I’ll do my best to answer them.
Only the driver was injured/hurt in the accident.
Manufacturers should dispense with all unnecessary packaging.
I’d like to apologize for not having written to you before.
Dear... I am writing to you to ask for your advice.
The belief that Spanish is easy to learn is mistaken.
He left the house at five in the morning, when the family was still asleep.
Dear Mary Yours/With love/With best wishes...
Dear John, Yours/With love/With best wishes...
